## Page 79

General Meeting of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA adopts resolutions on the approval of the annual financial statements by law.

According to the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, "AktG"), certain resolutions of the General Meeting of a KGaA are dependent on the consent of the General Partners (see Section 285 (2) AktG and Section 286 (1) AktG). This right of approval is excluded by the Articles of Association of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA insofar as this is legally permissible; this applies in particular to amendments to the Articles of Association, fundamental transactions, extraordinary management measures and the admission and dismissal of General Partners. On the other hand, the adoption of the annual financial statements by the General Meeting is only possible with the consent of the General Partner. According to the Company's Articles of Association, the General Partner declares this consent when submitting their resolution proposals on the annual financial statements to the General Meeting.

#### **II. Deviations from the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC)**

**1. Period since submission of the last declaration of conformity on 07 March 2023** In the period since the last submission of the declaration of conformity on 07 March 2023, the following recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code were not complied with. The deviation listed under letter b) has already been disclosed and explained in an update to the declaration of conformity on 26 January 2024.

**a** Deviating from recommendation A.3 GCGC, the internal control system and the risk management system initially covered sustainability-related targets only to the extent required by law. The Company has therefore further developed the internal control system and the risk management system in the period since the last since the last submission of the declaration of conformity on 07 March 2023 in order to comply with recommendation A.3 GCGC.

**b** Deviating from recommendation G.7 sentence 1 GCGC, the Shareholder Committee did not set the performance criteria for the variable remuneration for the fiscal year 2024 prior to its beginning. The details of the calculation of the new targets, which are to

be applied to the short-term variable remuneration (STI) for the first time in the fiscal year 2024, have resulted in an increased need for coordination.

- **c** The Shareholder Committee subsequently adjusted the assessment basis for the STI for the fiscal year 2023 for extraordinary effects (missing earnings contribution from the Behr-HELLA Thermocontrol (BHTC) joint venture, delayed tax refund following a Federal Fiscal Court ruling on the deductibility of foreign withholding tax, and factoring effects). Out of an abundance of caution, this adjustment was assessed as a deviation from recommendation G.8 GCGC. It was necessary because otherwise the management's contribution to the Company's success in the fiscal year 2023 would not have been adequately reflected in the STI.
- **d** Deviating from recommendation G.10 GCGC, the variable remuneration is not predominantly invested in shares of the Company or share-based. As a result of the acquisition of a majority shareholding in HELLA by FORVIA at the beginning of 2022, the development of HELLA's share price is only of limited significance. Therefore HELLA has restructured the LTI component with effect from 1 January 2023 and no longer takes the development of the HELLA's share price into account.

#### **2. Forward-looking part**

The General Partner as well as the Shareholder Committee and the Supervisory Board of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA intend not to comply with the recommendation of the GCGC mentioned above under No. 1 letter d) in the future for the reasons stated above.

#### **III. Proprietary transactions of management**

In accordance with Article 19 of the EU Market Abuse Regulation persons who complete management tasks at HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA or who have a close relationship to these persons must disclose reportable transactions with shares or debt instruments of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA or the associated derivatives or other financial instruments after a total volume of €20,000 has been reached within one calendar year. The Company publishes the transactions reported to it that require publication on the website **www.hella.com/directorsdealings**. In the past fiscal year, it was not notified of any transactions that require disclosure.

## Page 80

## Final declaration by the Management Board on relations with affiliated companies pursuant to Section 312 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz – AktG)

In the fiscal year 2023, HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA was a dependent company of FORVIA S.E. in the period from 01 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, as defined in Section 312 AktG. The Management Board of the General Partner of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA has therefore prepared a management report on relations with affiliated companies pursuant to Section 312 (1) AktG, which contains the following final declaration:

"We declare that, in respect of the legal transactions and measures listed in the report on relations with affiliated companies from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, the Company received appropriate consideration for each legal transaction, according to the circumstances known to us at the time the legal transactions were carried out or measures were taken or refrained from. If the Company suffered a disadvantage, it was granted a legal claim to an adequate benefit as compensation before the expiry of the fiscal year on 31 December 2023. The company has not suffered a disadvantage by the fact that measures were taken or refrained from."

## Page 81

## <span id="page-80-0"></span>Non-financial report of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA

Sustainable business activities that protect resources, the environment and health are a central challenge of this time and at the same time a driver of innovation in the automotive industry. The shift towards low-emission and zero-emission mobility is setting new standards and placing new demands on entrepreneurial action. For HELLA, this results in a wide range of economic opportunities and risks. To counteract these risks, the industry is taking on the challenge of gradually moving towards a climate-friendly circular economy. Responsible, fair and environmentally conscious action is therefore increasingly the focus of HELLA's operations.

#### **About the non-financial report**

In the non-financial report, HELLA reports annually on significant developments relating to the Company's sustainability performance. In the following Chapter, HELLA publishes a separate combined non-financial report in accordance with Section 315c in conjunction with 289c through 289e of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB). This report contains non-financial information that is material to and necessary to understand HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA's development, performance and current position as well as the impacts of its operations. HELLA focuses its reporting on aspects that are based on the definition of materiality and the content requirements of the German Commercial Code. The non-financial report contains a section with the disclosures to be made in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation (EU 2020/ 852 Art. 8 in conjunction with Art. 10 (2) of the Delegated Regulation 2021/2178). In this reporting period, HELLA is reporting in reference to the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). In July 2023, the delegated act on Set 1 of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) was adopted by the European Commission. HELLA will report in accordance with these requirements from the coming reporting period.

The reporting period is the HELLA fiscal year 2023 from 1 January to 31 December 2023. The fiscal year rhythm has been harmonised with the calendar year as of 1 January 2023. Where possible, comparative values from prior years are also given for KPIs on a calendar year basis.

#### **Reference framework and audit report**

Unless stated otherwise, the information relates to the HELLA Group (hereinafter referred to as "HELLA") as well as the parent company HELLA GmbH & Co KGaA. Joint ventures are excluded. The financially fully consolidated subsidiaries Docter Optics and HELLA Gutmann Solutions were largely integrated into the non-financial reporting in this reporting period. Mazars GmbH & Co. KG audit firm conducted a voluntary audit of the non-financial report in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and IDW EPS 991 for limited assurance purposes.

## Page 82

#### **Business model**

The HELLA Group is a listed, internationally positioned automotive supplier of the FORVIA Group. The Company stands for high-performance lighting technology and vehicle electronics. At the same time, HELLA covers a broad service and product portfolio for the spare parts and workshop business as well as for manufacturers of special-purpose vehicles and small-volume manufacturers. HELLA has 37,773 employees (as of the balance sheet date of 31 December 2023) at more than 125 locations worldwide and generated currency and portfolio-adjusted sales of €8.1 billion in the fiscal year 2023 (1 January to 31 December 2023) (reported: €8.0 billion). HELLA is organised into three business groups: Lighting, Electronics and Lifecycle Solutions. In the **Lighting business group**, HELLA offers the complete range of lighting technology products and systems. In the **Electronics business group**, HELLA focusses on selected product fields that contribute to making mobility safer, more efficient and more comfortable. The **Lifecycle Solutions business group** consists of the three divisions Independent Aftermarket, Workshop Solutions and Special Original Equipment. HELLA is a partner for spare parts dealers and independent workshops in the Independent Aftermarket division. The Workshop Solutions division's offering includes vehicle diagnostics, emissions testing, battery testing, light adjustment, and calibration, as well as service and data-based services. In the Special Original Equipment division, HELLA develops, manufactures and distributes lighting and electronic products for special-purpose vehicles such as construction and agricultural machinery, buses and motor homes, as well as for the marine sector.

#### **Sustainability management at HELLA**

In order to operate responsibly and sustainably, HELLA considers not only the financial aspects but also the environmental, social and governance (ESG) impact of its business activities. The aim is to effectively anchor sustainability into the processes as a central aspect of HELLA's operations and thus into the Company's day-to-day business and to manage it effectively.

To this end, HELLA's Management Board determines the sustainability strategy, defines objectives in consultation with the respective departments and prioritises the resulting activities. Within the Management Board, the Chief Financial Officer is responsible for sustainability. He chairs the Sustainability Council, a cross-functional steering body. The Council ensures an intense, Company-wide exchange on a bi-weekly basis, in which key sustainability issues and trends as well as different stakeholder interests are identified, discussed and evaluated. This systematic consideration of non-financial issues makes it possible to identify opportunities and risks for business development at an early stage. In addition, the Council coordinates and monitors central projects for implementing the sustainability strategy. Progress is regularly reported to the Management Board. In the Council, various corporate functions from all business divisions and core projects are involved. The Sustainability Office organises the Council and actively steers sustainability projects. The Sustainability Office reports to the Chief Executive Officer, who is closely involved in sustainability activities.

Responsibility for and implementation of the sustainability goals lies with the respective business divisions and corporate functions. Key management elements such as a global network of HR managers and environmental, health & safety managers have been implemented at all HELLA locations. The reporting period was characterised in particular by the detailing of measures to achieve the climate targets as well as efforts to anchor sustainability criteria in purchasing and effectively expand the corresponding due diligence obligations, among other things with regard to the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG). The technical experts at HELLA and the parent company FORVIA SE maintain an intensive dialogue on sustainability activities. In this way, employees from both companies network with each other on sustainability matters to harmonise management systems and objectives in the medium term and to exchange best practices. One milestone on this path, for example, consists of the environmental and energy management and occupational safety guidelines adopted during the reporting period in the joint FORVIA Excellence System (FES), a tool for managing operational excellence.

#### **Further notes**

on the business model, [the business groups, the](#page-28-0) corporate structure and the corporate strategy can be found in the "General information" section of the Group management report.

## Page 83

#### **Material sustainability issues**

HELLA identifies material sustainability aspects for setting targeted priorities in its sustainability management. In the reporting period, HELLA carried out a new materiality analysis in accordance with the German Commercial Code in close cooperation with the parent company FORVIA and evaluated sustainability aspects from internal and external sources. The update was carried out on the basis of the increasing knowledge gained about the material effects of sustainability issues along the value chain and taking into account the thematic requirements of the future EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). In the analysis, those responsible for the topics also represented the views of internal and external stakeholders such as employees, customers, investors, suppliers and local communities. As the main shareholder, FORVIA was directly involved in the evaluation of the key issues by subject experts. In the reporting period, the Sustainability Council and the HELLA Management Board confirmed the updated materiality analysis. HELLA has identified the following reportable topics for fiscal year 2023:

#### **Matters in accordance with German Commercial Code**

| (Handelsgesetzbuch –<br>HGB)        | Material non-financial<br>HELLA topics                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Environmental matters               | ■ Climate change<br>■ Circular economy                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Social matters                      | ■ Personal safety<br>of end users                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Employee matters                    | ■ Health and safety – Own<br>workforce<br>■ Health and safety – Workers<br>in the value chain<br>■ Working Conditions – Own<br>workforce<br>■ Diversity and inclusion<br>■ Employee development, talent<br>acquisition and employee<br>retention |
| Respect for human rights            | ■ Other work-related rights –<br>Own workforce<br>■ Other work-related rights –<br>Workers in the value chain                                                                                                                                    |
| Combating<br>corruption and bribery | ■ Business Conduct –<br>Compliance incl. corruption<br>and bribery                                                                                                                                                                               |

The topics of Circular economy and Diversity and inclusion were newly categorised as material report topics. The previously reportable topic of Product innovations is included in the disclosures on the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The topic of Energy management and emissions has been renamed Climate change, and Product safety has been renamed Personal safety of end users. The previous topic of Social standards in the supply chain is now presented in the topics Other work-related rights –Workers in the value chain and Health and safety – Workers in the value chain. The disclosures on the topics of Employer attractiveness and Employee promotion and development are listed in 2023 under the topics of Employee development, talent acquisition and employee retention, Working conditions – Own workforce and Other work-related rights at HELLA.

HELLA also includes the environmental matters of water, waste and pollution, the employee matters of working conditions - workers in the value chain and the social matter of community invovement and corporate culture and management of relationships with suppliers in the report as voluntary disclosures. They are also audited as described above. They are labelled accordingly in the text.

#### **Opportunity and risk assessment**

As part of risk and opportunity management, HELLA identifies both current and potential risks and opportunities arising from its operations. New aspects have been included within the scope of the HELLA Enterprise Risk Management. The opportunities and risks that arise in each case, including non-financial risks relating to the environment, social matters and corporate governance (ESG), are identified, assessed and managed by the relevant specialist departments in these fields. HELLA is obliged to report material risks arising from its own operations, the business relationships in the supply chain and with customers as well as from products if these are very likely to have or will have serious negative effects on the material non-financial issues (Section 289c (3), Nos. 3 and 4 HGB). For this purpose, the responsible specialist departments have carried out a risk assessment in accordance with the German Commercial Code and discussed the same in the Sustainability Council. No reportable risks were identified.

## Page 84

## EU taxonomy

The EU taxonomy is used to determine sustainable economic activities and aims to channel capital flows into them. This is intended to support the EU Green Deal, the EU environmental objectives and the Paris Climate Agreement.

Pursuant to the EU Regulation 2020/852 of 18 June 2020 (known as the "Taxonomy Regulation") and the Delegated Act on the EU Climate Taxonomy 2021/2139 of 4 June 2021 and its amendments by Regulation 2023/2485 of 27 June 2023 and the supplement by EU Delegated Act 2023/2486 of 27 June 2023, which set out the conditions under which economic activities can be considered as substantially contributributing to the EU environmental objectives, HELLA is required to disclose the share of its turnover, capital expenditure and certain operating expenses for the fiscal year 2023 that result from economic activities that are considered eligible and aligned in terms of the six EU objectives:

- Climate change mitigation
- Climate change adaptation
- Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources
- Transition to a circular economy
- Pollution prevention and control
- Protecting and restoring biodiversity and ecosystems

An economic activity is taxonomy-eligible if it is part of the activities described in the Delegated Acts to the Taxonomy Regulation, corresponding to the activities identified by the EU as likely to substantially contribute to one of the six environmental objectives.

A taxonomy-eligible activity is taxonomy-aligned if it meets the following three criteria:

- It substantially contributes to one or more environmental objectives by meeting the technical screening criteria detailed in the Delegated Acts to the Taxonomy Regulation.
- It does not cause any significant harm to the other environmental objectives by meeting the "Do No Significant Harm" criteria described in the Delegated Acts to the Taxonomy Regulation.

It is carried out in compliance with minimum safeguards and complies with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.

#### **Taxonomy-eligible business activities**

To prepare the required disclosures, HELLA has identified the relevant business activities for the financially consolidated companies throughout the Group that are classified as sustainable in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the Delegated Acts and EU Commission's published statement on frequently asked questions. To this end, HELLA has carried out a central assessment of the entire product portfolio as well as capital expenditure and operating expenses using standardised interviews and templates. The valuation was carried out in close consultation with the parent company FORVIA. This interdisciplinary analysis led to the identification of the following taxonomy-eligible economic activities for 2023:

- Climate change mitigation Activity 3.4 Manufacture of batteries: HELLA manufactures components for battery systems, such as battery management systems, intelligent battery sensors and voltage converters.
- Climate change mitigation Activity 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components: The recent amendment to the Climate Change Delegated Act introduces this new category into the taxonomy. The disclosures under 3.18 are stated for the first time for this reporting period.
- Climate change adaptation activity 7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings: HELLA invests in the construction of new buildings. This information is being reported for the first time in 2023.

Given the essential role of automotive suppliers in achieving automotive manufactures' climate targets, HELLA considers that its business activities linked to plug-in hybrid vehicles with emissions below 50gr CO²/km should also be taken into cosideration under the Climate change mitigation activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon vehicles. However, to comply with the legal provisions of the taxonomy, HELLA presents the results without activity 3.3 and publishes a separate set of KPIs that states what the KPIs would look like if this activity were included.

## Page 85

Climate change mitigation activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport: HELLA takes into account its business activities with products for hybrid vehicles (<50gr CO²/km). These vehicles are designed and produced as part of a joint effort between car manufacturers and component suppliers. Whereas manufacturers translate the consumer preferences into specifications for the design and assembly of vehicles, HELLA supplies the technologies and components that meet these parameters. HELLA researches, designs and produces systems (including lighting technologies and electronics) that are part of low carbon vehicles. These systems are inseparable from hybrid vehicles and their environmental performance.

HELLA has not identified any taxonomy-eligible economic activities among the activities newly included in the taxonomy in 2023 for the environmental objectives Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, Transition to a circular economy, Pollution prevention and control, and Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. HELLA has conducted a detailed review of the activities 1.2 Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment and 5.2 Spare parts, both noted under the objective of transition to a circular economy. These activities contain no reference to business activities in the transport sector, neither in the description of the activities nor in the technical screening criteria. Accordingly, HELLA is not reporting any taxonomy-eligible activities for these environmental objectives.

#### **Taxonomy-aligned business activities Substantial contribution**

*100% of HELLA's sales and opex-related taxonomy-eligible business activities meet the substantial contribution criteria.*

*97% of HELLA's capex-related taxonomy-eligible business activities meet the substantial contribution criteria.* 

Activity 3.4 Manufacture of batteries: The criteria for substantial contribution concern the production of battery components that substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The battery components manufactured by HELLA make a substantial contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the automotive sector, for example by providing start-stop functionalities and recuperation for internal combustion engine vehicles, and by enabling the use of high-voltage battery systems for hybrid and electric vehicles;

- Activity 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components: HELLA considers that 100% of its taxonomy-eligible business activities meet the criteria of a substantial contribution. HELLA develops and manufactures components for zero-emission vehicles that are essential for delivering and improving the vehicles' environmental performance.
- Activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport: In line with the analysis performed on eligibility, HELLA considers its components in the service of hybrid vehicles to meet the substantial contribution criteria.
- Activity 7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings, HELLA's capital expenditure does not meet the substantial contribution criteria.

#### **Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria**

*Preliminary note: All DNSH criteria were evaluated at the HELLA level. HELLA has not assessed the DNSH criteria at the level of the car manufacturers.* 

#### **Climate change Adaptation**

Together with HELLA, FORVIA has analysed the exposure and vulnerability of its business activities to physical climate risks under two global warming scenarios (IPCC scenarios SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5) with the future time horizons 2030 and 2050. Together with the parent company FORVIA, HELLA is developing action plans to mitigate the risks that have been identified as the most significant for HELLA's production sites. HELLA aims to closely monitor the implementation of the corresponding action plans over the coming years.

*100% of the taxonomy-eligible HELLA business activities that meet the substantial contribution criteria meet these DNSH criteria.* 

#### **Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources**

HELLA carried out a risk analysis for its production sites to identify risks relating to maintaining water quality and avoiding water stress. Local action plans were drawn up in accordance with the existing environmental management system to cover

## Page 86

risks that were categorised as material. The riskbased approach is part of the HELLA environmental management system and is subject to operational control and monitoring of the various regulatory obligations.

#### *100% of the taxonomy-eligible HELLA business activities that meet the substantial contribution criteria meet these DNSH criteria.*

#### **Transition to a circular economy**

The handling of waste is managed at all production sites worldwide and the waste recycling rate is monitored. Information about and the traceability of substances of concern in the manufactured products are managed via the International Material Data System (IMDS), which covers the entire product life cycle. HELLA also takes aspects of circularity into account during product development. The products are designed according to customer-specific requirements and taking into account the requirements of EU Directive 2000/53/ EC on end-of-life vehicles. One example: The use of secondary materials is considered on a project-specific basis during the development process, as is the potential for resource efficiency or lightweight construction. As part of its strategic research activities, HELLA is investigating how the contribution of products to the circular economy can be further expanded.

*100% of the taxonomy-eligible HELLA business activities that meet the substantial contribution criteria meet these DNSH criteria.* 

#### **Prevention and reduction of environmental pollution**

HELLA manages hazardous substances along the entire value chain, from suppliers to manufacturing customers, via the automotive industry's data recording system (International Management Data System). At the production sites, HELLA processes require an assessment of the substances used that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction. For this reason, material safety data sheets (MSDS) are analysed and included and validated in internal databases. In this way, HELLA ensures compliance with the REACH Regulation (EC) 1907/2006. Before validating all chemicals used, HELLA assesses whether the use of the substances complies with the regulations. Some of the substances of very high concern (SVHC) that are considered essential for their intended uses are still be used in HELLA's processes in 2023. HELLA continuously examines the possibility of replacing such substances. In any case, HELLA ensures adapted health and safety conditions in the handling of these substances to protect people and the environment and to reduce the risk when using them.

*100% of the taxonomy-eligible HELLA business activities that meet the substantial contribution criteria meet these DNSH criteria.*

#### **Protecting and restoring biodiversity and ecosystems**

HELLA has identified the production sites in the vicinity of a key biodiversity areas. The management of potential impacts on biodiversity is addressed by the principles described in the FORVIA Green Factory Whitebook, including the required environmental impact assessments for new construction sites. The FORVIA Group, supported by HELLA, has committed itself to the Act4Nature initiative to minimise the impact on biodiversity and contribute to the preservation of ecosystems. Accordingly, knowledge about ecosystems and the protection of biodiversity in the vicinity of the sites is communicated and local improvement measures are taken to reduce the impact on site.

*100% of the taxonomy-eligible HELLA business activities that meet the substantial contribution criteria meet these DNSH criteria.*

#### **Minimum safeguards**

HELLA complies with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, including the principles and rights set out in the International Labour Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the International Convention on Human Rights.

#### **Human rights due diligence obligations**

HELLA respects the international commitments and principles relating to human rights and labour standards. Processes have been put in place to ensure that appropriate due diligence is carried out. The HELLA Human Rights Policy, which has been rolled out, sets out expectations for the Company's stakeholders with regard to the implementation of their due diligence obligations. Following a risk-based approach, human rights risks are analysed and prioritised, and preventive measures are taken to avoid violations. Any significant violation is reported to the Management Board and remedial action is taken as appropriate.

## Page 87

#### **Anti-corruption**

HELLA's commitment to combating corruption is embedded in the Code of Conduct and the compliance guidelines. HELLA is subject to various anti-corruption laws and has introduced an internal programme to comply with these laws.

#### **Taxation**

HELLA endeavours to comply with tax law in the countries in which the Company is operating. The tax guideline complies with OECD guidelines, and realated tax risks are monitored by the Legal, Tax and Finance departments.

#### **Science, technology and innovation**

HELLA promotes transparent collaboration on science, technology and innovation and recognises the need to ensure that scientific and technological developments have a positive impact on society and the environment.

#### **Legal monitoring**

HELLA monitors legal developments at Group and business division level and proactively identifies potential risks. The anonymous whistleblowing system "tellUs" is available to all stakeholders.

#### **Fair competition**

HELLA is committed to fostering a fair competitive environment with partners and competitors. To this end, a comprehensive antitrust risk management programme has been developed to raise awareness among internal stakeholders and offer preventative training activities.

#### **HELLA EU taxonomy KPIs: Sales, investments and operating expenses FY 2023**

| Key performance indicator   | Taxonomy-eligible | Taxonomy-non-eligible | Taxonomy-aligned | Not taxonomy-aligned |
|-----------------------------|-------------------|-----------------------|------------------|----------------------|
| Sales                       | 21.6%             | 78.4%                 | 21.6%            | 78.4%                |
| Capital expenditure (CapEx) | 21.1%             | 78.9%                 | 20.5%            | 79.5%                |
| Operating expenses (OpEx)   | 16.2%             | 83.8%                 | 16.2%            | 83.8%                |

#### **HELLA EU taxonomy KPIs: Sales, investments and operating expenses FY 2023 (incl. activity 3.3)**

| Key performance indicator   | Taxonomy-<br>eligible | Taxonomy-non-<br>eligible | Taxonomy-<br>aligend | Not taxonomy<br>aligned |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------|
| Sales                       | 25.4%                 | 74.6%                     | 25.4%                | 74.6%                   |
| Capital expenditure (CapEx) | 23.5%                 | 76.5%                     | 22.9%                | 77.1%                   |
| Operating expenses (OpEx)   | 18.4%                 | 81.6%                     | 18.4%                | 81.6%                   |

## Page 88

## Specifications for the collection of taxonomy key performance indicators

The denominators of the KPIs were determined in accordance with the definition of the Delegated Act of 6 July 2021 and its annexes supplementing the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The underlying financial information was reviewed jointly by the finance and project management teams to ensure consistency and reconciliation with the annual financial statements. They are presented after elimination of reciprocal transactions and comprise the entire scope of consolidation of the Group (excluding companies consolidated using the equity method). In order to avoid double counting of various economic activities, HELLA has set up a successive process and carried out control activities. Sales, operating expenses and investments are identified at the division level and not at the site level so as to take consolidation effects into account.

#### **Turnover**

HELLA determines the relevant sales on the basis of the analysed products. Total sales, which are used as the denominator for calculating the taxonomy disclosures, amount as at 31 December 2023 to €7.95 billion and correspond to the total sales reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. The numerator is made up of the sales allocated to climate protection activities 3.4 (€473.6 million) and 3.18 (€1,245.8 million). Taking activity 3.3 into account, a further €304.3 million is included in the numerator.

#### **Capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx)**

Investments and operating expenses are disclosed taking into account materiality thresholds. Economic activities that account for more than 0.5% of total taxonomy-relevant investments and operating expenses were assessed qualitatively in terms of their significance for HELLA. Costs that were classified as immaterial were not recognised as taxonomy-eligible and are therefore not reported further. This applies primarily to investments and operating expenses in connection with activities 7.2. Renovation of existing buildings, 7.3. Installation, maintenance and repair of energy-efficient appliances, 7.4. Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles, 7.5. Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and equipment for measuring, regulating and controlling the system performance of buildings and 7.6. Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies.

As at 31 December 2023, the investments used as the denominator for calculating the taxonomy figures amounted to €686.7 million, corresponding to the additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets over the period, including capitalised development costs and additions in connection with business combinations. The figures can be reconciled with the figures presented in the consolidated financial statements and with the figures presented in the consolidated cash flow statement (sections 30 Intangible assets and 31 Property, plant and equipment).

Investments in connection with taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-compliant sales were also categorised as taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned, with the numerator amounting to €140.8 million (€157.5 million including activity 3.3.). HELLA also reports investments in the acquisition and ownership of buildings (climate change activity 7.7) that are above the materiality threshold.

Operating expenses, which are used as the denominator for calculating the taxonomy disclosures, amounted to €964.3 million as at 31 December 2023 and correspond to direct, non-capitalised costs from non-capitalised research and development activities, building renovation measures, short-term leases and other expenses in connection with the day-today maintenance of assets or property, plant and equipment. For the numerator, operating expenses related to taxonomy-eligible and compliant sales were also categorised as taxonomy-eligible and compliant and estimated based on the ratio of sales KPIs. They include expenses for research and development, maintenance, servicing and repair of facilities and assets, building renovation measures and all other expenses for the day-to-day maintenance of assets. The total was €156.7 million (€177.5 million including activity 3.3).

## Page 89

Share of sales associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities

| Fiscal year 2023                                                                                                |             | 2023                               |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                         | Code (2)    | Turnover (3)                       | Portion of turnover, 2023 (4)      | Climate change mitigation (5)               | Climate change adaptation (6)               | Water (7)                         | Pollution (8)               | Circular economy (9)               | Biodiversity (10)                                | Climate change mitigation (11)        | Climate change adaptation (12)        | Water (13)                                       | Pollution (14)        | Circular economy (15)        | Biodiversity (16)        | Minimum safeguards (17)        | Portion of taxonomy-aligend (A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2022 (18)*      | Category enabling activity (19)      | Category transitional activity (20)      |  |
| TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                    |             | € million                          | %                                  | Y; N;<br>N/EL                               | Y; N;<br>N/EL                               | Y; N;<br>N/EL                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL               | Y; N;<br>N/EL                      | Y; N;<br>N/EL                                    | Y/N                                   | Y/N                                   | Y/N                                              | Y/N                   | Y/N                          | Y/N                      | Y/N                            | %                                                                                        | E                                    | T                                        |  |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                               |             |                                    |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                        | CCM<br>3.4  | 473.6                              | 6.0%                               | Y                                           | N                                           | N/EL                              | N/EL                        | N/EL                               | N/EL                                             | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                            | CCM<br>3.18 | 1,245.8                            | 15.7%                              | Y                                           | N                                           | N/EL                              | N/EL                        | N/EL                               | N/EL                                             | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Turnover of environmentally<br>sustainable activities (taxonomy-<br>aligned) (A.1)                              |             | 1,719.4                            | 21.6%                              | 21.6%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                               |             | 1,719.4                            | 21.6%                              | 21.6%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                           |             | 0                                  | 0                                  | 0%                                          | 0%                                          |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      | T                                        |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities)    |             |                                    |                                    | EL;<br>N/EL                                 | EL;<br>N/EL                                 | EL;<br>N/EL                       | EL;<br>N/EL                 | EL;<br>N/EL                        | EL;<br>N/EL                                      |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) |             | 0                                  | 0.0%                               | 0%                                          | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                               |             | 1,719.4                            | 21.6%                              | 21.6%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                             |             |                                    |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy non-eligibile<br>activities (B)                                                            |             | 6,234.7                            | 78.4%                              |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Total                                                                                                           |             | 7,954.1                            | 100.0%                             |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Fiscal year 2023                                                                                                |             | 2023                               |                                    |                                             |                                             | Substantial Contribution Criteria |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                         | Code (2)    | Absolute turnover (3)<br>€ million | Portion of turnover, 2023 (4)<br>% | Climate change mitigation (5)<br>Y; N; N/EL | Climate change adaptation (6)<br>Y; N; N/EL | Water (7)<br>Y; N; N/EL           | Pollution (8)<br>Y; N; N/EL | Circular economy (9)<br>Y; N; N/EL | Biodiversity (10)<br>Y; N; N/EL                  | Climate change mitigation (11)<br>Y/N | Climate change adaptation (12)<br>Y/N | Water (13)<br>Y/N                                | Pollution (14)<br>Y/N | Circular economy (15)<br>Y/N | Biodiversity (16)<br>Y/N | Minimum safeguards (17)<br>Y/N | Portion of taxonomy-aligend (A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.) turnover, 2022 (18)*<br>% | Category enabling activity (19)<br>E | Category transitional activity (20)<br>T |  |
| <b>TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                             |             |                                    |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| <b>A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)</b>                                           |             |                                    |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                        | CCM 3.4     | 473.6                              | 6.0%                               | Y                                           | N                                           | N/EL                              | N/EL                        | N/EL                               | N/EL                                             | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                               | CCM 3.18    | 1,245.8                            | 15.7%                              | Y                                           | N                                           | N/EL                              | N/EL                        | N/EL                               | N/EL                                             | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport                                                            | CCM 3.3     | 304.3                              | 3.8%                               | Y                                           | N                                           | N/EL                              | N/EL                        | N/EL                               | N/EL                                             | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                     |             | 2,023.7                            | 25.4%                              | 25.4%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                               |             | 2,023.7                            | 25.4%                              | 25.4%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               | Y                                     | Y                                     | Y                                                | Y                     | Y                            | Y                        | Y                              |                                                                                          | E                                    |                                          |  |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                           |             | 0                                  | 0                                  | 0%                                          | 0%                                          |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      | T                                        |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned activities)          |             |                                    |                                    | EL; N/EL                                    | EL; N/EL                                    | EL; N/EL                          | EL; N/EL                    | EL; N/EL                           | EL; N/EL                                         |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)       |             | 0                                  | 0.0%                               | 0%                                          | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                               |             | 2,023.7                            | 25.4%                              | 25.4%                                       | 0%                                          | 0%                                | 0%                          | 0%                                 | 0%                                               |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| <b>B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                      |             |                                    |                                    |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                |             | 5,930.5                            | 74.6%                              |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |
| Total                                                                                                           |             | 7,954.1                            | 100.0%                             |                                             |                                             |                                   |                             |                                    |                                                  |                                       |                                       |                                                  |                       |                              |                          |                                |                                                                                          |                                      |                                          |  |

## Page 90

Share of sales associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities (incl. voluntary information on climate change mitigation activity 3.3.)

## Page 91

CapEx share associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities

| Fiscal year 2023                                                                                             |             | 2023      |                            |                               |                               | Substantial Contribution Criteria |               |                      |                   |                                |                                | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------|----------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                      | Code (2)    | CapEx (3) | Portion of CapEx, 2023 (4) | Climate change mitigation (5) | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water (7)                         | Pollution (8) | Circular economy (9) | Biodiversity (10) | Climate change mitigation (11) | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water (13)                                       | Pollution (14) | Circular economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Portion of taxonomy-aligend (A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.) CapEx, 2022 (18)* | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                              |             | € million | %                          | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL        | Y; N;<br>N/EL     | Y/N                            | Y/N                            | Y/N                                              | Y/N            | Y/N                   | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                                | E                               | T                                   |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                            |             |           |                            |                               |                               |                                   |               |                      |                   |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                     | CCM<br>3.4  | 66.9      | 9.7%                       | Y                             | N                             | N/EL                              | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y                                                | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                         | CCM<br>3.18 | 74.0      | 10.8%                      | Y                             | N                             | N/EL                              | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y                                                | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                  |             | 140.8     | 20.5%                      | 20.5%                         | 0%                            | 0%                                | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y                                                | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                            |             | 140.8     | 20.5%                      | 20.5%                         | 0%                            | 0%                                | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y                                                | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                        |             | 0         | 0                          | 0%                            | 0%                            |                                   |               |                      |                   |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 | T                                   |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) |             |           |                            | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL                       | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL          | EL;<br>N/EL       |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                       | CCM<br>7.7  | 4.0       | 0.6%                       | N/EL                          | N/EL                          | N/EL                              | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| CapEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) |             | 4.0       | 0.6%                       | 0%                            | 0%                            | 0%                                | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                            |             | 144.8     | 21.1%                      | 21.1%                         | 0%                            | 0%                                | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                          |             |           |                            |                               |                               |                                   |               |                      |                   |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| CapEx of taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                    |             | 541.9     | 78.9%                      |                               |                               |                                   |               |                      |                   |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |
| Total                                                                                                        |             | 686.7     | 100.0%                     |                               |                               |                                   |               |                      |                   |                                |                                |                                                  |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |

## Page 92

Share of CapEx associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities (incl. activity 3.3.)

| Fiscal year 2023                                                                                               |             | 2023      |                            |                               |                               |            | Substantial Contribution Criteria |                      |                   |                                |                                |            |                | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                              |             | Fiscal year 2023 |                           | 2023                          |                               |               |               | Substantial Contribution Criteria |                   |                                |                                |            |                | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                              |             |           | Fiscal year 2023          |                               | 2023                          |               |               | Substantial Contribution Criteria |                   |                                |                                |            |                | DNSH criteria<br>('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|---------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|---------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--|--|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                        | Code (2)    | CapEx (3) | Portion of CapEx, 2023 (4) | Climate change mitigation (5) | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water (7)  | Pollution (8)                     | Circular economy (9) | Biodiversity (10) | Climate change mitigation (11) | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular economy (15)                            | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Portion of taxonomy-aligend (A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.) CapEx, 2022 (18)* | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                      | Code (2)    | OpEx (3)         | Portion of OpEx, 2023 (4) | Climate change mitigation (5) | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water (7)     | Pollution (8) | Circular economy (9)              | Biodiversity (10) | Climate change mitigation (11) | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular economy (15)                            | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Portion of taxonomy-aligend (A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.) OpEx, 2022 (18)* | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                      | Code (2)    | OpEx (3)  | Portion of OpEx, 2023 (4) | Climate change mitigation (5) | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water (7)     | Pollution (8) | Circular economy (9)              | Biodiversity (10) | Climate change mitigation (11) | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular economy (15)                            | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Portion of taxonomy-aligend<br>(A.1.) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2.)<br>OpEx, 2022<br>(18)* | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) |  |  |  |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                |             | € million | %                          | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL           | Y; N; N/EL        | Y/N                            | Y/N                            | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                                              | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                                | E                               | T                                   | A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                              |             | € million        | %                         | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL     | Y/N                            | Y/N                            | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                                              | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                               | E                               | T                                   | TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                 |             | € million | %                         | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL     | Y/N                            | Y/N                            | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                                              | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                                        | E                               | T                                   |  |  |  |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                              |             |           |                            |                               |                               |            |                                   |                      |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | A.1. Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                            |             |                  |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | A.1. Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                            |             |           |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                       | CCM<br>3.4  | 66.9      | 9.7%                       | Y                             | N                             | N/EL       | N/EL                              | N/EL                 | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     | Manufacture of batteries                                                                                     | CCM<br>3.4  | 37.1             | 3.8%                      | Y                             | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                 | E                               |                                     | Manufacture of batteries                                                                                     | CCM<br>3.4  | 37.1      | 3.8%                      | Y                             | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                          | E                               |                                     |  |  |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                           | CCM<br>3.18 | 74.0      | 10.8%                      | Y                             | N                             | N/EL       | N/EL                              | N/EL                 | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     | Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                         | CCM<br>3.18 | 119.6            | 12.4%                     | Y                             | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                 | E                               |                                     | Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                         | CCM<br>3.18 | 119.6     | 12.4%                     | Y                             | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                          | E                               |                                     |  |  |  |
| Manufacture of low carbon technologies<br>for transport                                                        | CCM<br>3.3  | 16.7      | 2.4%                       | Y                             | N                             | N/EL       | N/EL                              | N/EL                 | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     | OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                   |             | 156.7            | 16.2%                     | 16.2%                         | 0%                            | 0%            | 0%            | 0%                                | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                 | E                               |                                     | Manufacture of low carbon technologies<br>for transport                                                      | CCM<br>3.3  | 20.8      | 2.2%                      | Y                             | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/EL              | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                          | E                               |                                     |  |  |  |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                    |             | 157.5     | 22.9%                      | 22.9%                         | 0%                            | 0%         | 0%                                | 0%                   | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     | Of which Enabling                                                                                            |             | 156.7            | 16.2%                     | 16.2%                         | 0%                            | 0%            | 0%            | 0%                                | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                 | E                               |                                     | OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                   |             | 177.5     | 18.4%                     |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       | 18.4%                                                                                    |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                              |             | 157.5     | 22.9%                      | 22.9%                         | 0%                            | 0%         | 0%                                | 0%                   | 0%                | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       |                                                                                  | E                               |                                     | Of which Transitional                                                                                        |             | 0                | 0                         | 0%                            | 0%                            |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 | T                                   | Of which Enabling                                                                                            |             | 177.5     | 18.4%                     |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                                                | Y                 | Y                       | 18.4%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |  |  |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                          |             | 0         | 0                          | 0%                            | 0%                            |            |                                   |                      |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 | T                                   | A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) |             |                  |                           | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL                       | EL;<br>N/EL       |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Of which Transitional                                                                                        |             | 0         | 0                         |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         | 0%                                                                                       |                                 | T                                   |  |  |  |
| Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |             |           |                            | EL; N/EL                      | EL; N/EL                      | EL; N/EL   | EL; N/EL                          | EL; N/EL             | EL; N/EL          |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | OpEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)  |             | 0                | 0.0%                      | 0%                            | 0%                            | 0%            | 0%            | 0%                                | 0%                |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) |             |           |                           | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL                       | EL;<br>N/EL       |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                         | CCM<br>7.7  | 4.0       | 0.6%                       | N/EL                          | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                              | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                            |             | 156.7            | 16.2%                     | 16.2%                         | 0%                            | 0%            | 0%            | 0%                                | 0%                |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | OpEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)  |             | 0         | 0.0%                      |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         | 0%                                                                                       |                                 | T                                   |  |  |  |
| CapEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2)   |             | 4.0       | 0.6%                       | 0%                            | 0%                            | 0%         | 0%                                | 0%                   | 0%                |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                          |             |                  |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                            |             | 177.5     | 18.4%                     |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         | 18.4%                                                                                    |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                              |             | 161.5     | 23.5%                      | 23.5%                         | 0%                            | 0%         | 0%                                | 0%                   | 0%                |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | OpEx of taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                     |             | 807.6            | 83.8%                     |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                          |             |           |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                            |             |           |                            |                               |                               |            |                                   |                      |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     | Total                                                                                                        |             | 964.3            | 100.0%                    |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     | OpEx of taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                     |             | 786.8     | 81.6%                     |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |
| CapEx of taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                      |             | 525.2     | 76.5%                      |                               |                               |            |                                   |                      |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                              |             |                  |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                              |             |           |                           |                               |                               |               |               |                                   |                   |                                |                                |            |                |                                                  |                   |                         |                                                                                          |                                 |                                     |  |  |  |

## Page 93

OpEx share associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities

## Page 94

OpEx share associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities (incl. 3.3)

**DNSH criteria** 

**Total 964.3 100.0%**

94

## Page 95

## Climate change

#### **Strategy**

Climate protection is a central field of action in the HELLA sustainability strategy, as climate change and the associated effects pose enormous challenges for people and the environment. HELLA is aware that its own business activities and activities in the value chain have an impact on the climate. By implementing its own climate protection strategy, the Company is contributing to decarbonising the economy and protecting the planet for future generations.

#### **Management of impacts, risks and opportunities**

Climate protection activities are coordinated by the cross-divisional Sustainability Council under the direction of the Corporate Sustainability Office. This is also where the continuous reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from business operations is tracked and current developments are regularly reported to the Management Board. Project teams, which are staffed internationally and cross-functionally as needed, develop packages of measures that are implemented on site by technical experts.

To manage Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Real Estate Management records, consolidates and analyses Company-wide energy consumption and the resulting emissions. Specialists also manage the activities regarding the purchase and self-generation of renewable energies and the reduction of energy consumption.

Activities relating to emissions in the upstream and downstream value chain (Scope 3) are coordinated by the Sustainability Office with the involvement of the specialist departments. The emissions are calculated in cooperation with the consultancy Deloitte. The Sustainability Council monitors the progress of the relevant measures to ensure that the climate targets are realised.

#### **Policies**

The HELLA policy on environmental protection and health and safety (EHS Policy) addresses the protection of resources, the use of renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. HELLA is also planning to roll out a dedicated climate protection policy in the coming reporting period. HELLA sets out climate protection requirements for business partners in the supply chain in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers and in the Quality Guideline, among other things.

#### **Engagement with own workforce and workers' representatives**

HELLA offers employees information on climate protection via various communication channels such as town hall meetings or intranet articles. The Sustainability Office is the point of contact for sustainability-related questions and suggestions. Feedback on the Company's sustainability performance is also obtained in the global employee survey. Interested employees can expand their knowledge of climate protection, contribute their ideas to the FORVIA climate protection network and exchange ideas with each other.

#### **Actions on material impacts, risks and opportunities**

#### **Mitigating climate change**

HELLA determines the carbon footprints of numerous innovation projects to identify reduction levers and pursue targeted product carbon savings together with suppliers and customers. In the reporting period, the Company was able to further increase transparency with regard to carbon emissions and, for example, obtain more primary data on materials from the supply chain and logistics. The Company pursues reduction measures in line with the three central approaches "Use less, Use Better, Use Longer". Corresponding action plans are part of the strategic planning process and are to be further expanded.

#### **Use less**

Reducing the carbon footprint starts with reducing the consumption of resources. HELLA promotes measures such as the lightweight construction of products and energy efficiency and thereby aims to reduce the use of materials and resources. Saving energy in manufacturing and thus also reducing emissions make a contribution to climate protection at HELLA. Against this background, the Company has intensified the "Think.Act.Save!" initiative for systematic energy saving. The initiative has created a network of specialists in manufacturing who identify and implement local energy saving measures. The measures are followed up via the Company-wide tool for improvement projects. This ensures timely and efficient implementation as well as effective scaling and dissemination of projects within the Company.

## Page 96

#### **Use better**

HELLA endeavours to supply energy from renewable sources. In the 2023 fiscal year, the Company further expanded its own renewable electricity generation. During the year, photovoltaic systems were commissioned at the production sites in Changchun, China, as well as in Hamm and Recklinghausen, Germany, and a ground-mounted system at the logistics centre in Erwitte is under construction. The expansion of the plant in Ghiroda, Romania, will also be equipped with solar energy and geothermal energy.

Sustainable procurement practices play a crucial role in the management of Scope 3 emissions. HELLA plans to reduce its carbon footprint, for example by increasing the use of secondary materials for products and the use of energy from renewable sources in the supply chain as well. Efficient logistics that take greenhouse gas emissions into account are also part of the action plans.

#### **Use longer**

HELLA conducts research and development to promote the recycling and reuse of products and materials as well as waste streams. By promoting longevity and the circular economy, the Company is helping to minimise the consumption of natural resources. Further notes is provided in the chapter on the circular economy.

#### **Adaptation to climate change**

HELLA analyses physical climate risks to prepare for the possible effects of climate change and take appropriate local measures. A comprehensive analysis enables potential risks to be better understood, making it possible to develop appropriate adaptation strategies. This can help to minimise physical damage, strengthen the resilience of infrastructures and mitigate long-term economic impacts. HELLA has analysed the physical climate risks at its production sites according to two IPCC scenarios (SSP2 4.5 and SSP5 8.5) for the time horizons 2030 and 2050. The Company has assessed the locations accordingly with regard to their exposure to two climate risks:

- Effects of acute climate risks, i.e. risks from natural events with destructive consequences such as floods, extreme storms, heavy rainfall, forest fires or heat waves.
- Impacts of chronic climate risks caused by long-term changes in the average and variability of climate patterns, such as higher temperatures or humidity or increasing water stress.

Against this background, HELLA is developing a short and medium-term action plan for adapting to climate change in cooperation with the parent company FORVIA, which is to be implemented in the functions and units as required. In the reporting period, HELLA already had an early warning system in place to monitor natural disasters and weather phenomena such as storms, floods, extreme temperatures, earthquakes and others for production sites to respond to natural events accordingly. Further local measures, for example in relation to heatwaves and occupational health and safety, are being implemented.

#### **Targets and metrics**

In 2021, HELLA's Management Board set the following climate targets for the Company and specified them in the reporting period.

- By 2025, HELLA aims to reduce carbon emissions at its own production, administration and development sites with an area of more than 900 square metres by 80% in absolute terms (Scope 1 & 2 in reference to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG)). Remaining, unavoidable carbon emissions are to be offset by certified climate protection projects.
- By no later than 2025, HELLA will exclusively source electricity from renewable sources worldwide (100%).
- By 2025, the Company will reduce the specific electricity intensity (kWh in relation to €1,000 of sales) in production by 20 percent (base year 2019).
- By 2030, HELLA aims to reduce carbon emissions (Scope 3.1–3.15 excluding Scope 3.11 use of sold products) in reference to the GHG by 38% compared to the base year 2019.
- HELLA is aiming for net zero emissions along the entire value chain by 2045 at the latest.

## Page 97

HELLA calculates greenhouse gas emissions in reference to the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Accordingly, direct emissions (Scope 1) arise from energy sources owned by the Company. HELLA takes into account gas use for heating, emissions from combined heat and power plants and electricity generators, and fuel consumption for vehicle fleets and refrigerants. HELLA takes indirect emissions into account in the context of the use of purchased electricity and district heating (Scope 2).

Compared to the prior fiscal year, carbon intensity in Scope 1 and Scope 2 was reduced, which is partly due to successful energy saving programmes as well as an increase in the share of electricity from renewable sources.

#### **HELLA CO2 emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3)\* in tonnes CO2e**

| Fiscal/calendar year                                                                      | 2019      | 2022      | 2023      | Target                           |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|----------------------------------|
| Scope 1                                                                                   |           |           |           |                                  |
| Scope 1 – direct emissions from owned or controlled sources                               | 56,680    | 48,830    | 37,000    | 2025:                            |
| Scope 2                                                                                   |           |           |           | -80% vs. 2019 absolute           |
| Scope 2 – indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat and steam | 293,240   | 182,250   | 205,860   | (0 emissions incl. compensation) |
| Scope 3                                                                                   |           |           |           |                                  |
| Scope 3.1 Purchased goods                                                                 | 1,766,420 | 1,527,720 | 1,903,520 |                                  |
| Scope 3.1 Purchased services                                                              | 57,340    | 76,700    | 99,750    |                                  |
| Scope 3.2 Capital goods                                                                   | 224,770   | 250,500   | 212,630   |                                  |
| Scope 3.3 Fuel and energy-related activities                                              | 70,640    | 66,310    | 53,460    |                                  |
| Scope 3.4 Transport and distribution (upstream)                                           | 125,280   | 167,310   | 142,780   |                                  |
| Scope 3.5 Waste generated in production                                                   | 13,890    | 17,150    | 27,330    |                                  |
| Scope 3.6 Business travel                                                                 | 10,810    | 12,290    | 23,040    | 2030:                            |
| Scope 3.7 Employee commuting                                                              | 53,690    | 35,050    | 40,310    | -38% vs. 2019                    |
| Scope 3.8 Leased assets                                                                   | 7,190     | 6,770     | 8,200     |                                  |
| Scope 3.9 Transport and distribution (downstream)                                         | 52,880    | 62,610    | 66,330    |                                  |
| Scope 3.10 Processing of products sold                                                    | 191,110   | 185,680   | 210,110   |                                  |
| Scope 3.12 End-of Life treatment of sold products                                         | 246,610   | 205,780   | 207,580   |                                  |
| Scope 3.15 Investments                                                                    | 85,660    | 41,010    | 21,480    |                                  |
| Scope 3.11 Use of sold products                                                           | 6,485,190 | 6,554,770 | 6,876,230 |                                  |
| Total emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3)                                                        | 9741390   | 9440720   | 10135600  |                                  |

*\*Detailed information on the methodology used to calculate carbon emissions can be found in the annex to the non-financial report.*

## Page 125

For Scope 3.1 Purchased goods, the proportion of supplier-specific emission factors was increased instead of average values.

More detailed emission factors were used for Scope 3.3 Fuel and energy related activities, as the IEA published special emission factors in September 2023.

Several changes were implemented for Scope 3.11 Use of sold products:

- HELLA takes into account the proportion of products used in electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles instead of the average values of combustion engine vehicles, as was previously the case.
- When determining the emissions of products for electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, the emissions upstream of electricity production were also taken into account in addition to the emissions associated with electricity production.
- The ratio of the power consumption of an electric vehicle to the weight of the vehicle was adjusted in comparison to vehicles with a combustion engine. More precise emission factors were used for hybrid vehicles.
- The average weight and average emission factor / current consumption of the similar vehicle type used for vehicles without data in regional databases depends on the segment and engine (e.g. average weight of an electric vehicle of the same segment for an electric vehicle).

For HELLA products for trucks, GLEC emission factors and underlying assumptions are used to match the source considered for Scope 3.4 and 3.9.

For Scope 3.12 End-of-life treatment of sold products, more accurate tCO²e conversion ratios were used for emissions related to purchases (Scope 3.1) in metric tonnes of material. To estimate the emissions of scope 3.12, the tonnes of material purchased are multiplied by an emission factor for waste treatment, which varies depending on the type of material. However, as not all purchases are expressed in a unit of weight, the remaining weight of purchases is estimated for the calculations in Scope 3.12. This kind of ratio in t/tCO²e is also used in Scope 3.1.

Everything relating to the carbon footprint calculations and the specification of the associated uncertainties was prepared with the support of Deloitte.

## Page 126

## Independent Practitioner's Report on a limited assurance engagement on a combined separate non-financial group report

To HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA, Lippstadt

*Mazars GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerberatungsgesellschaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the combined separate non-financial group report and issued an independent practitioner's report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a non-binding translation of the original German independent practitioner's report.*

### Assurance conclusion

We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the separate non-financial report of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA, Lippstadt (hereinafter referred to as "Company"), which is combined with the non-financial report of the HELLA Group and which additionally comprises the chapter "General information on the HELLA Group" in the com

## Page 127

bined management report of the Company incorporated by reference for the purpose of complying with section 315c in conjunction with sections 289c to 289e of the HGB ["Handelsgesetzbuch": German Commercial Code] and Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (hereinafter "EU Taxonomy Regulation") and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder for the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 (hereinafter referred to as the "non-financial group report").

Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the non-financial group report of the Company for the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with section 315c in conjunction with sections 289c to 289e of the HGB and Article 8 of EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder as well as the interpretation by the legal representatives as disclosed in section "EU Taxonomy".

## Basis for the conclusion

We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the draft German auditing standard: Limited assurance engagement on non-financial (group) reports outside the scope of an audit of financial statements (IDW EPS 991 (11.2022), as issued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany, Incorporated Association [Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer in Deutschland e.V. (IDW)] and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): "Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information", issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our responsibility is further described in the section "Practitioner's Responsibility for the limited assurance engagement related to the separate non-financial group report".

Our audit firm has applied the quality assurance system requirements by the IDW Standard on Quality Management in the Audit Firm (IDW QS 1) and accordingly of the International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM 1) as issued by the IAASB. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.

## Emphasis of Matter - Principles for the preparation of the nonfinancial group report

Without modifying our conclusion, we draw attention to the explanations in the non-financial group report, in which the principles for the preparation of the non-financial group report are described. The non-financial group report was prepared by the Company to meet the requirements of section 315c in conjunction with sections 289c to 289e of the HGB and Article 8 of EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted in this respect. Consequently, the non-financial group report is not suitable for other purposes.

## Responsibility of the legal representatives and the supervisory board for the non-financial group report

The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of the non-financial group report in accordance with the relevant German legal and European regulations and with the specific criteria outlined by the legal representatives, as well as for such internal control as the legal representatives determine it necessary to enable the preparation of a non-financial group report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error (e.g. manipulation of the non-financial group report).

This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the non-financial group report as well as making assumptions and estimates about individual non-financial disclosures that are reasonable under the given circumstances.

The relevant regulations contain phrases and terms that are subject to considerable uncertainties of interpretation and for which authoritative comprehensive interpretations have not been published yet. Accordingly, the legal representatives have provided their interpretations of such phrases and terms in the section on the EU Taxonomy Regulation of the non-financial group report. The legal representatives are responsible for the

## Page 128

#### 128

#### Annual Report 2023 **Non-financial report Audit opinion**

reasonableness of these interpretations. Due to the immanent risk that such phrases and terms may be interpreted differently by regulators or courts, the legality of such interpretations is uncertain.

The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process of preparing the non-financial group report.

## Practitioner's responsibility for the limited assurance engagement related to the non-financial group report

Our objective is to express a conclusion with limited assurance, based on our limited assurance engagement performed, as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the non-financial group report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant German legal and European regulations as well as the substantiating criteria outlined by the legal representatives of the Company.

In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly, a significantly lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the assurance procedures is at the practitioner's discretion.

In the course of our limited assurance engagement, we performed the following assurance procedures and other activities, among others:

- Evaluation of the suitability of the criteria disclosed by the legal representatives in the non-financial group report,
- Inquiries of personnel responsible for the materiality analysis to gain an understanding of the Company's approach to identifying material issues and corresponding reporting boundaries,
- Inquiries of personnel involved on group level to gain an understanding of the preparation process to identify taxonomyeligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities and the corresponding disclosures in the combined separate non-financial group report,
- Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the non-financial group report about the preparation process, internal controls relevant to that process and the disclosures in the non-financial group report,
- Identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement of the non-financial group report,
- Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and processes for collecting, aggregating and validating the data from the relevant functions in the reporting period,
- Performing analytical procedures on selected disclosures in the non-financial group report,
- Evaluation of future-oriented disclosures. There is a significant unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the future-oriented disclosures and
- Evaluation of the overall presentation of the non-financial group report.

As set out in the description of the legal representatives' responsibilities, the legal representatives have interpreted the wording and terms contained in the relevant regulations; the legality of these interpretations is subject to the inherent uncertainties mentioned in this description.

### Restriction of use

We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engagement was conducted for the Company's purposes and that the report is intended solely to inform the Company about the results of the assurance engagement. As a result, it may not be suitable for another purpose than the aforementioned. Accordingly, the report is not intended to be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions based on it. Our responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any responsibility towards third parties. Our assurance conclusion is not modified in this respect.

## Page 129

## General Engagement Terms and Liability

The General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms] dated 1 January 2017 **(https://www.mazars.de/ Home/Services/Audit-Assurance/Auftragsbedingungen)** are applicable to this engagement and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this engagement. In addition, please refer to the liability provisions contained therein no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We accept no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded.

We make express reference to the fact that we will not update the assurance report to reflect events or circumstances arising after it was issued, unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone taking note of the summarized result of our work contained in this report to decide whether and in what way this information is useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of their own review procedures.

Frankfurt am Main, March 13, 2024

**Mazars GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerberatungsgesellschaft** 

Yvonne Meyer Julian Klose Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer *(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)*

## Page 130

## Report by the Supervisory Board

## Ladies and Gentlemen,

In the fiscal year 2023, the Supervisory Board closely followed the situation and development of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA. The Supervisory Board performed the tasks incumbent upon it as provided for by applicable law and the articles of association, and advised and supervised the Management Board.

#### **Work with the Management Board**

The Management Board regularly provided the Supervisory Board with written and verbal information on the business performance of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA. In particular, the market and sales situation of the Company against the background of general economic developments, the financial situation of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as earnings trends were presented to the Supervisory Board. In the context of the monthly reporting, sales and earnings performance figures were discussed for the HELLA Group as a whole as well as broken down by business segment. Furthermore, during the Supervisory Board meetings, the current business situation, the sales, earnings and capital expenditure planning, as well as the operational targets were discussed. The Management Board provided a detailed commentary regarding any deviations in the course of business from the budgeted values. The Management Board also reported regularly on current market developments in the automotive industry and on the status of coordination and cooperation activities between HELLA and the parent company FORVIA. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board also engaged in regular dialogue with the CEO outside of the Supervisory Board meetings.

#### **Focus of consultations of the Supervisory Board**

In the fiscal year 2023, the Supervisory Board held four ordinary meetings, each of which was held in person. Resolutions were also passed by shareholder resolution passed in writing.

The ordinary meetings were held 20 March 2023, 24 July 2023, 28 September 2023 and 12 December 2023.

At the ordinary meeting on 20 March 2023, which was attended by representatives of the auditor, the annual financial statements of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA and the Group as well as the dependent company report and the remuneration report of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA for the short fiscal year 2022 were presented and discussed in detail. Based on the initial review by the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved both sets of financial statements. It also endorsed the proposal of the General Partner for the appropriation of distributable profits. The dependency report for the short fiscal year 2022 was intensively discussed and approved by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also dealt with the remuneration report for the short fiscal year 2022 and noted it with approval. HELLA made use of an exemption

## Page 131

option under commercial law in the short fiscal year 2022 and did not prepare its own non-financial reporting due to its inclusion in the reporting of FORVIA S.E. Against this background, the Supervisory Board was presented with an overview of joint non-financial reporting at FORVIA level for the short fiscal year 2022. It also dealt with the report on the Supervisory Board's activities, and it discussed and adopted the proposed resolutions for the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2023. In addition, the Management Board presented the current company situation, in particular the status of the cooperation between HELLA and FORVIA.

At the ordinary meeting on 24 July 2023, the Management Board once again reported to the Supervisory Board on the current status of the cooperation between HELLA and FORVIA, in particular on the establishment of a joint venture for the areas of Indirect Purchasing and IT, in addition to the current business development of the business segments and the Group. The current status of the annual strategic planning process was also presented. The Management Board also provided information on the implementation status of a new HELLA anti-corruption guideline and on current developments with regard to non-financial reporting for fiscal year 2023. Finally, considerations for the further organisation of the company headquarters in Lippstadt and measures for employee retention were presented and discussed.

At the ordinary meeting on 28 September 2023, the Supervisory Board discussed the process for the election of new employee representatives to the Supervisory Board in 2024. The gender quota to be fulfilled by the Supervisory Board was also discussed in this context. Other current corporate governance topics were also discussed, such as preparations for the efficiency review of the Supervisory Board in October 2023. In addition to the report on the further development of the HELLA technology portfolio of the Business Groups Lighting and Electronics, the Management Board reported to the Supervisory Board on the current situation of the company.

At the ordinary meeting on 12 December 2023, the Supervisory Board discussed the results of the 2023 efficiency review and the measures derived from it to further improve the cooperation of the Board. In addition to the Management Board's report on the current business situation, the current status of the restructuring of the company's headquarters in Lippstadt, as well as HELLA's sustainability strategy, were also discussed.

The average attendance at the meetings of the Supervisory Board in the short fiscal year 2022 was 98%. Britta Peter was unable to attend a meeting of the Supervisory Board. The other members of the Supervisory Board attended all meetings during their term of office.

Outside of the meetings, the Supervisory Board passed resolutions by shareholder resolution passed in writing in accordance with Section 15 (1) of the Articles of Association. This was to approve and adopt the 'Declaration on the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)' for 2023.

#### **Work of the committees**

The Supervisory Board has established an Audit Committee that is responsible for the initial review of the annual financial statements, the consolidated financial statements, the combined management report, the proposal for the appropriation of profits and the report from the General Partner on relations with affiliates (dependency report). The Audit Committee is also responsible for the preliminary audit of the non-financial reporting, unless a statutory exemption option is used. The Audit Committee decides on the agreements with the auditor, in particular the audit assignment, the determination of the main points of the audit, and the fee agreement. The Audit Committee also deals with the monitoring duties prescribed by Section 107(3) sentence 2 AktG. Currently, the members of the Audit Committee are Judith Buss (Chair), Paul Hellmann, Gabriele Herzog and Christian van Remmen.

The Audit Committee held five ordinary meetings in the fiscal year 2023, on 12 January 2023, 2 March 2023, 26 April 2023, 20 July 2023 and 6 November 2023, as well as two extraordinary meetings on 9 February 2023 and 4 December 2023. With the exception of the meetings on 26 April 2023, 20 July 2023 and 4 December 2023, which were held as video conferences, these were held as face-to-face events. With the exception of Paul Hellmann, who was unable to attend one of the meetings, all members of the Audit Committee took part in the meetings. This corresponds to an average presence of 96%. Representatives of the auditor for the short fiscal year 2022, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC), also attended the meetings from time to time. From the meeting on 20 July 2023, representatives of the auditor for the fiscal year 2023, Mazars GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Steuerberatungsgesellschaft (Mazars), attended from time to time. By resolution of the Audit Committee, representatives of the Management Board of the Gener

## Page 132

al Partner also attended the meetings. Parts of the Audit Committee meetings are regularly reserved for consultations with the auditor, without the presence of the Management Board. The Chair of the Audit Committee also maintains a close dialogue with the auditor, the Management Board and the managers in the Finance/Controlling department outside of meetings.

At the meeting on 12 January 2023, the Management Board presented the half-year financial statement of the short fiscal year 2022. In addition to the half-year reports from Corporate Audit, Risk Management and Compliance Management, the Audit Committee also dealt with the draft report on the auditor selection process.

At the meeting on 9 February 2023, the Management Board presented the current status of the audit of the annual financial statements for the short fiscal year 2022. The HELLA authorisation guideline and the EMIR audit were also discussed. In connection with the selection process for the auditor from the fiscal year 2023 onwards, various auditors presented themselves at the Audit Committee meeting.

At the ordinary meeting on 2 March 2023, the Audit Committee examined the initial review of the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements, the combined management report, the proposal for the appropriation of profits, the dependency report and the dependent company report for the short fiscal year 2022. Furthermore, the Audit Committee received an overview of the remuneration report, HELLA's contribution to non-financial reporting by FORVIA and the proposed resolutions to be discussed at the Supervisory Board meeting on 20 March 2023 for the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2023. Another subject of the meeting was, once again, the audit for the fiscal year 2023.

At the meeting on 26 April 2023, the Management Board presented the three-month financial statement of the fiscal year 2023. The Audit Committee also dealt with monitoring the quality of the audit of the financial statements for the short fiscal year 2022 and the scope of the audit engagement for the fiscal year 2023.

At the meeting on 20 July 2023, the Management Board presented the half-year financial statement for fiscal year 2023 and a scheme to strengthen cash flow generation in the HELLA Group. The Audit Committee also determined the focal points of the audit for the fiscal year 2023 and dealt with the half-year reports of Corporate Audit, Risk Management and Compliance Management. HELLA's future financing strategy and the agreements with the auditor and the Group auditor were also discussed.

At the meeting on 6 November 2023, the Management Board presented the nine-month financial statement of the fiscal year 2023. The Audit Committee also addressed the monitoring of the auditor's audit quality and the current status of Mazars' onboarding. The Audit Committee also discussed the internal audit plan for the fiscal year 2024 and the current status of risk management, ESG reporting and the company's financing strategy with the Management Board. Current developments in the Chinese market were also discussed.

At its meeting on 4 December 2023, the Audit Committee dealt intensively with the preliminary consolidated financial statements prepared as at 31 October 2023 (hard close) and the preparations for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2023.

The Nomination Committee, consisting of Andreas Renschler and Andreas Marti, which is responsible for preparing the Supervisory Board's proposals to the Annual General Meeting for the election of shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, did not meet in the fiscal year 2023.

#### **Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements**

On 28 April 2023, the Annual General Meeting appointed Mazars as auditor both for the annual financial statements and for the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2023. The annual financial statements and the management report of HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA for the fiscal year 2023 were prepared by the General Partner in accordance with the provisions applicable under the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, "HGB"); the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted in the European Union, and in accordance with the additional commercial law provisions as they apply under Section 315a HGB. The two sets of financial statements, including the combined management report and the dependency report for the fiscal year 2023, were audited by the auditor Mazars, which issued an unqualified auditors' certificate for all documents. In addition, the non-financial report was created for HELLA GmbH & Co. KGaA and the Group for the fiscal year 2023. This was audited by
