## Page 205

formulas used based on the planned vehicle volumes. In the Power Engineering Business Area, we used allocation formulas based on planned sales revenue. This data and planning form part of the medium-term financial planning for the next five years on which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board have passed a resolution.

# **Sales revenue**

The definition of turnover in the EU Taxonomy corresponds to the sales revenue reported in the IFRS consolidated financial statements. This amounted to €322.3 billion in fiscal year 2023 (see also note on "Sales revenue" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements; the prior-year figures were adjusted – see disclosures on IFRS 17).

Of this total, €294.0 billion, or 91.2% of Group sales, was attributable to economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport, and was classified as taxonomy-eligible. This includes sales revenue after sales allowances from the sale of new and used vehicles including motorcycles, from genuine parts, from the rental and lease business, and from interest and similar income, as well as sales revenue directly related to the vehicles, such as workshop and other services.

Economic activity 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components accounted for taxonomyeligible sales revenue of €165 million or 0.1% of Group sales. This includes the sale of all-electric vehicle motors and powertrains to third parties.

Of the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue from economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport, €36.6 billion met the screening criteria used to measure the substantial contribution to climate change mitigation. This includes all of our all-electric vehicles and a large proportion of our plug-in hybrids. In 2023, there were 799 thousand such vehicles, around one third more than in the previous year. Their share of the relevant sales volume – excluding the vehicles from the Chinese joint ventures – rose to 12.7 (11.1)%. Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles made up the bulk at 797 thousand vehicles; trucks and buses were down compared with the previous year, when buses that met the requirements of the Euro-6 E standard were still counted. Sales of all-electric vehicles (BEV) increased very sharply compared with the prior year. In addition, the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue from economic activity 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components met the screening criteria used to measure the substantial contribution to climate change mitigation.

Taking into account the DNSH criteria and minimum safeguards, €36.5 (26.1) billion of the sales revenue generated from our vehicle-related business, equating to 11.3 (9.4)% of consolidated sales revenue, was taxonomy-aligned. Of this figure, €165 million related to economic activity 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components, which is being reported for the first time, while €27.8 billion or 8.6% of consolidated sales revenue was attributable to our BEV models.

In the Power Engineering Business Area, our activities that fall under economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen generated completely taxonomy-aligned sales revenue of €28 million (previous year: €18 million). The increase in taxonomy-aligned sales revenue is attributable to the expansion of the business. Most of our taxonomy-eligible sales revenue in the Power Engineering Business Area was attributable to economic activity 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies (€3.1 billion), €68 million of which is taxonomy-aligned. In the reporting year, the complex evidential requirements were fulfilled for a portion of the activities for the first time. A further €58 million was contributed to taxonomy-eligible sales revenue by economic activity 9.1 Close to market research, development and innovation.

Of the Volkswagen Group's total sales revenue in fiscal year 2023,

- > €297.4 (256.9) billion, or 92.3 (92.0)%, was taxonomy-eligible sales revenue and
- > €36.6 (26.1) billion, or 11.4 (9.4)%, was taxonomy-aligned sales revenue.

## Page 206

# **SALES REVENUE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                    | SALES REVENUE |      | SUBSTANTIAL<br>CONTRIBUTION TO<br>CLIMATE CHANGE<br>MITIGATION |      | COMPLIANCE WITH<br>DNSH<br>CRITERIA | COMPLIANCE WITH<br>MINIMUM<br>SAFEGUARDS | TAXONOMY-ALIGNED<br>SALES REVENUE |      |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|------|----------------------------------------------------------------|------|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------|
|                                                                        | € million     | %1   | € million                                                      | %1   | Y/N                                 | Y/N                                      | € million                         | %    |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                        | 297,359       | 92.3 | 36,847                                                         | 11.4 | Y/N                                 | Y                                        | 36,644                            | 11.4 |
| Vehicle-related business                                               |               |      |                                                                |      |                                     |                                          |                                   |      |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon<br>technologies for transport            | 294,049       | 91.2 | 36,586                                                         | 11.4 | Y/N                                 | Y                                        | 36,383                            | 11.3 |
| of which taxonomy-aligned BEVs                                         |               |      |                                                                |      |                                     |                                          | 27,759                            | 8.6  |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components              | 165           | 0.1  | 165                                                            | 0.1  | Y                                   | Y                                        | 165                               | 0.1  |
| Power Engineering                                                      |               |      |                                                                |      |                                     |                                          |                                   |      |
| 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the<br>production and use of hydrogen | 28            | 0.0  | 28                                                             | 0.0  | Y                                   | Y                                        | 28                                | 0.0  |
| 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon<br>technologies                    | 3,059         | 0.9  | 68                                                             | 0.0  | Y                                   | Y                                        | 68                                | 0.0  |
| 9.1 Close to market research,<br>development and innovation            | 58            | 0.0  | -                                                              | -    | -                                   | -                                        | -                                 | -    |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                    | 24,925        | 7.7  |                                                                |      |                                     |                                          |                                   |      |
| Total (A + B)                                                          | 322,284       |      |                                                                |      |                                     |                                          |                                   |      |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total sales revenue.

## Page 207

# **Capital expenditure**

Capital expenditure for the purposes of the EU Taxonomy refers to the following items in the IFRS consolidated financial statements: additions to intangible assets, additions to property, plant and equipment, and additions to lease assets and investment property. These are reported in the notes to the 2023 consolidated financial statements in the notes on "Intangible assets", "Property, plant and equipment" and "Lease assets and investment property". Additions from business combinations, each of which is reported under "Changes in consolidated Group", are also included. By contrast, additions to goodwill are not included in the calculation.

In fiscal year 2023, additions in the Volkswagen Group as defined above amounted to

- > €12.3 billion from intangible assets,
- > €14.8 billion from property, plant and equipment and
- > €33.0 billion from lease assets (mainly vehicle leasing business) and investment property.

Other additions to be included resulted from changes in the consolidated Group, amounting to €1.4 billion in fiscal year 2023. Total capital expenditure to be included in accordance with the EU Taxonomy therefore came to €61.5 billion.

All capital expenditure attributable to our vehicle-related business is associated with economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport. Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure for the vehiclerelated business amounted to €61.1 billion, or 99.4% of the Group's capital expenditure.

To determine the substantial contribution in the vehicle-related business, we compiled the financial figures based on the vehicle model and powertrain technology in the same way as for sales revenue. Where possible, capital expenditure was directly attributed to vehicles. It was included if the vehicles in question make a substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation objective. Any capital expenditure directly attributable to vehicles that do not meet the screening criteria was not included. Capital expenditure that was not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle was taken into account on a proportionate basis using allocation formulas. In our vehicle-related business, we developed allocation formulas based on planned vehicle volumes for the Group companies. In the sales companies, for example, we used allocation formulas related either to individual brands or to all brands, depending on the primary business activity, while site-based allocation formulas were used for production companies. This means that capital expenditure was counted in full via the allocation formulas for sites that according to our medium-term planning will produce only vehicles meeting the screening criteria for the substantial contribution in the next five years. In contrast, capital expenditure on sites that only produce vehicles not meeting the screening criteria was not counted under the allocation formula. Calculated in this way, capital expenditure relating to vehicles that meet the screening criteria for the substantial contribution amounted to €20.1 billion.

Taking into account the DNSH criteria and minimum safeguards, capital expenditure of €20.0 (16.9) billion was taxonomy-aligned. This represented 32.6 (34.5) % of the Group's total capital expenditure. Of this figure, €5.9 billion was attributable to intangible assets, €6.3 billion to property, plant and equipment and €7.9 billion to lease assets and investment property. The figure includes additions to capitalized development costs of €4.9 billion and additions to property, plant and equipment of €6.1 billion for our all-electric vehicles (BEV). The increase in taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure of €3.1 billion is attributable to the growing number of environmentally sustainable vehicle projects under the EU Taxonomy.

In the reporting period, we refinanced taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure from fiscal years 2021 and 2022 based on the Green Finance Framework updated in October 2022 by issuing green bonds in the amount of €3.5 billion. Only capital expenditure in connection with all-electric vehicles was included here.

## Page 208

In 2022, Scania issued a green bond totaling SEK 3.0 billion to finance research and development activities relating to all-electric vehicles. The remaining €91 million was used in the reporting period; of this amount, €46 million was attributable to taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure. Adjusted for this figure, taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure attributable to the vehicle-related business accounted for 32.5 (34.3)% of total capital expenditure in accordance with the EU Taxonomy.

€37 million of the taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure in the Power Engineering Business Area is attributable to economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen and €85 million is attributable to economic activity 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies. For the latter, capital expenditure was broken down based on planned sales revenue.

Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure for the manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen was disclosed in the amount of €37 million, half of which was attributable to intangible assets and half to property, plant and equipment. Capital expenditure amounting to €24 million for the manufacture of other low-carbon technologies was disclosed as taxonomy-aligned, more than 90% of this was attributable to property, plant and equipment.

Of the Volkswagen Group's total capital expenditure in fiscal year 2023,

- > €61.3 (48.9) billion, or 99.6 (99.6)%, was taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure and
- > €20.1 (16.9) billion, or 32.7 (34.5)%, was taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure.

# **CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                 | CAPITAL EXPENDITURE |      | SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION TO CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION |      | COMPLIANCE WITH DNSH CRITERIA | COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM SAFEGUARDS | TAXONOMY-ALIGNED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE |      |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|------|-------------------------------------------------------|------|-------------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------|
|                                                                     | € million           | %1   | € million                                             | %1   | Y/N                           | Y/N                                | € million                            | %    |
| <b>A. Taxonomy-eligible activities</b>                              | 61,250              | 99.6 | 20,188                                                | 32.8 | Y/N                           | Y                                  | 20,091                               | 32.7 |
| Vehicle-related business                                            |                     |      |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                      |      |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport            | 61,129              | 99.4 | 20,126                                                | 32.7 | Y/N                           | Y                                  | 20,029                               | 32.6 |
| of which additions to capitalized development costs for BEVs        |                     |      |                                                       |      |                               |                                    | 4,920                                | 8.0  |
| of which additions to property, plant and equipment for BEVs        |                     |      |                                                       |      |                               |                                    | 6,107                                | 9.9  |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components              | -                   | -    | -                                                     | -    | -                             | -                                  | -                                    | -    |
| Power Engineering                                                   |                     |      |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                      |      |
| 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen | 37                  | 0.1  | 37                                                    | 0.1  | Y                             | Y                                  | 37                                   | 0.1  |
| 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                    | 85                  | 0.1  | 24                                                    | 0.0  | Y                             | Y                                  | 24                                   | 0.0  |
| 9.1 Close to market research, development and innovation            | -                   | -    | -                                                     | -    | -                             | -                                  | -                                    | -    |
| <b>B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities</b>                          | 221                 | 0.4  |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                      |      |
| <b>Total (A + B)</b>                                                | 61,472              |      |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                      |      |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total capital expenditure.

## Page 209

# **Operating expenditure**

The operating expenditure reported by us for the purposes of the EU Taxonomy comprises both non-capitalized research and development costs, which can be taken from the note on "Intangible assets", and the expenditure for short-term leases recognized in our consolidated financial statements, which can be found in the note on "IFRS 16 (Leases)", as well as expenditure for maintenance and repairs.

The allocation of operating expenditure to the economic activities followed the same logic as that described for capital expenditure.

All operating expenditure attributable to the vehicle-related business is associated with economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport and has been classified as taxonomy-eligible.

Where possible, non-capitalized research and development costs were directly attributed to vehicles. They were included if the vehicles in question make a substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation objective. We did not include any non-capitalized research and development costs directly attributable to vehicles that do not meet the screening criteria. Non-capitalized research and development costs that were not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle were taken into account on a proportionate basis using allocation formulas. For these and other operating expenses, allocation formulas were used, similarly to capital expenditure. Of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure of €5.7 (4.9) billion, around 85% was attributable to noncapitalized research and development costs. The absolute value of the increase in taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure is attributable to the growing number of environmentally sustainable vehicle projects under the EU Taxonomy.

Including the share of the bond issued by Scania attributable to taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure, the share of taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure declined from 43.2 (42.7)% to 42.9 (42.0)% of total operating expenditure in accordance with the EU Taxonomy.

€9 million of the taxonomy-eligible operating expenditure in the Power Engineering Business Area is attributable to economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen and €219 million is attributable to economic activity 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies. For the latter, operating expenditure that could not be directly allocated was broken down based on planned sales revenue.

Taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure for the manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen was disclosed in the amount of €9 (4) million and was attributable to non-capitalized research and development costs. €61 million of the operating expenditure was disclosed for the manufacture of other lowcarbon technologies, nearly two-thirds of which was attributable to non-capitalized research and development costs. Operating expenditure that could not be directly allocated was broken down on the basis of the planned taxonomy-aligned sales revenue.

## Page 210

# **OPERATING EXPENDITURE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                    | OPERATING<br>EXPENDITURE<br>€ million | OPERATING<br>EXPENDITURE<br>%1 | SUBSTANTIAL<br>CONTRIBUTION TO<br>CLIMATE CHANGE<br>MITIGATION<br>€ million | SUBSTANTIAL<br>CONTRIBUTION TO<br>CLIMATE CHANGE<br>MITIGATION<br>%1 | COMPLIANCE WITH<br>DNSH<br>CRITERIA<br>Y/N | COMPLIANCE WITH<br>MINIMUM<br>SAFEGUARDS<br>Y/N | TAXONOMY-ALIGNED<br>OPERATING<br>EXPENDITURE<br>€ million | TAXONOMY-ALIGNED<br>OPERATING<br>EXPENDITURE<br>% |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| <b>A. Taxonomy-eligible activities</b>                                 | <b>13,120</b>                         | <b>98.9</b>                    | <b>5,834</b>                                                                | <b>44.0</b>                                                          | <b>Y/N</b>                                 | <b>Y</b>                                        | <b>5,807</b>                                              | <b>43.8</b>                                       |
| Vehicle-related business                                               |                                       |                                |                                                                             |                                                                      |                                            |                                                 |                                                           |                                                   |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon<br>technologies for transport            | 12,893                                | 97.2                           | 5,764                                                                       | 43.5                                                                 | Y/N                                        | Y                                               | 5,737                                                     | 43.2                                              |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components              | -                                     | -                              | -                                                                           | -                                                                    | -                                          | -                                               | -                                                         | -                                                 |
| Power Engineering                                                      |                                       |                                |                                                                             |                                                                      |                                            |                                                 |                                                           |                                                   |
| 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the<br>production and use of hydrogen | 9                                     | 0.1                            | 9                                                                           | 0.1                                                                  | Y                                          | Y                                               | 9                                                         | 0.1                                               |
| 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon<br>technologies                    | 219                                   | 1.6                            | 61                                                                          | 0.5                                                                  | Y                                          | Y                                               | 61                                                        | 0.5                                               |
| 9.1 Close to market research,<br>development and innovation            | -                                     | -                              | -                                                                           | -                                                                    | -                                          | -                                               | -                                                         | -                                                 |
| <b>B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities</b>                             | <b>145</b>                            | <b>1.1</b>                     |                                                                             |                                                                      |                                            |                                                 |                                                           |                                                   |
| <b>Total (A + B)</b>                                                   | <b>13,265</b>                         |                                |                                                                             |                                                                      |                                            |                                                 |                                                           |                                                   |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total operating expenditure.

## Page 211

#### **CAPEX PLAN UNDER THE EU TAXONOMY**

The EU Taxonomy requires the reporting to state the extent to which taxonomy-aligned capital and operating expenditures a) relate to assets or processes associated with environmentally sustainable economic activities or b) are part of a plan to expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or to allow taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become taxonomy-aligned (CapEx plan). A CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy shows the total capital expense, i.e. the sum of capital and operating expenditures expected to be incurred in the reporting period and during the five-year medium-term planning in order to expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or allow taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become taxonomy-aligned.

For the vehicle-related business, the CapEx plan drawn up under the EU Taxonomy relates to economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport within the climate change mitigation environmental objective.

Additions from lease assets (mainly vehicle leasing business) are based on existing environmentally sustainable activities and have therefore not been included in the CapEx plan. We allocated additions from intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, as well as non-capitalized research and development costs to the CapEx plan if they allow taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become taxonomy-aligned or lead to the expansion of taxonomy-aligned economic activities. For this, we compared the average taxonomy-aligned production volume from the medium-term planning with the taxonomy-aligned vehicles from the reporting period and allocated the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure according to this ratio, whereby we also took into account the share exceeding the current taxonomy-aligned production volume.

As a result, €8 (9) billion of the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and €3 (3) billion of the taxonomyaligned operating expenditure in the reporting period is attributable to the CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy. The total capital expense from the CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy that is expected to be incurred in the reporting period and during the five-year medium-term planning amounts to €90 (100) billion.

In the Power Engineering Business Area, the CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy relates to economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen, and economic activity 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies, both of which are listed in the climate change mitigation environmental objecttive.

In respect of the manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen, we allocated €36 (26) million of the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and €8 (4) million of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure to the CapEx plan based on the ratio of sales revenue in the reporting period to the average sales revenue envisaged in the medium-term planning. The total capital expense from this CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy that is expected to be incurred in the reporting period and during the medium-term planning amounts to approximately €455 (300) million.

In respect of the manufacture of other low-carbon technologies, we allocated €23 million of the taxonomyaligned capital expenditure and €37 million of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure to the CapEx plan based on the ratio of sales revenue in the reporting period to the average sales revenue envisaged in the mediumterm planning. The total capital expense from this CapEx plan under the EU Taxonomy that is expected to be incurred in the reporting period and during the medium-term planning amounts to approximately €380 million.

## Page 212

#### **TABULAR PRESENTATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EU TAXONOMY**

#### **SALES REVENUE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                                                                                  | Code     | € million | %1    | CRITERIA FOR A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION |                           |           |           |                  |              | DNSH CRITERIA (DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM) |                           |       |           |                  |              | %1 | Enabling activities category | Transition activities |                    |                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|-------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|-----------|------------------|--------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------|-----------|------------------|--------------|----|------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                                      |          |           |       | Climate change mitigation               | Climate change adaptation | Water     | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity | Climate change mitigation              | Climate change adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity |    |                              |                       | Minimum safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned (A.1) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2) proportion of sales revenue 2022 |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                                      |          |           |       |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                                        |          |           |       |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                                 | CCM 3.3  | 36,383    | 11.3  | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            |    | 9.4                          | E                     |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                                                    | CCM 3.18 | 165       | 0.1   | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            |    | -                            | E                     |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen                                                                      | CCM 3.2  | 28        | 0.0   | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            |    | 0.0                          | E                     |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                         | CCM 3.6  | 68        | 0.0   | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            |    | -                            | E                     |                    |                                                                                    |
| Sales revenue from environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                   |          | 36,644    | 11.4  |                                         | -                         | -         | -         | -                | -            |                                        | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y  |                              | 9.4                   |                    |                                                                                    |
| Of which enabling activities                                                                                                         |          | 36,644    | 11.4  |                                         | -                         | -         | -         | -                | -            |                                        | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y  |                              | 9.4                   | E                  |                                                                                    |
| Of which transition activities                                                                                                       |          | -         | -     |                                         | -                         | -         | -         | -                | -            |                                        | -                         | -     | -         | -                | -            | -  |                              | -                     |                    |                                                                                    |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned)                      |          |           |       | EL; N/EL3                               | EL; N/EL3                 | EL; N/EL3 | EL; N/EL3 | EL; N/EL3        | EL; N/EL3    |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                                 | CCM 3.3  | 257,666   | 80.0  | EL                                      | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    | 81.8                         |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                         | CCM 3.6  | 2,991     | 0.9   | EL                                      | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    | 0.9                          |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Close to market research, development and innovation                                                                                 | CCM 9.1  | 58        | 0.0   | EL                                      | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    | 0.0                          |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Sales revenue from taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) |          | 260,715   | 80.9  |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    | 82.7                         |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Sales revenue from taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                          |          | 297,359   | 92.3  |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    | 92.0                         |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                                  |          |           |       |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Sales revenue from activities that are not taxonomy-eligible (B)                                                                     |          | 24,925    | 7.7   |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                                        |          | 322,284   | 100.0 |                                         |                           |           |           |                  |              |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |              |    |                              |                       |                    |                                                                                    |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total sales revenue.

2 Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: 'Not eligible', activity not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant environmental objective. 

3 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: Activity that is not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant objective.

## Page 213

#### **CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                                                                          | Code    | € million | %1                       | Y; N;<br>N/EL2                          | Y; N;<br>N/EL2 | Y; N;<br>N/EL2 | Y; N;<br>N/EL2 | Y; N;<br>N/EL2 | Y; N;<br>N/EL2 | Y/N                                    | Y/N | Y/N | Y/N | Y/N | Y/N | Y/N                                                                        | %1                           | E                     | T |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|-----------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------|---|
|                                                                                                                              |         | CapEx     | Proportion of CapEx 2023 | CRITERIA FOR A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION |                |                |                |                |                | DNSH CRITERIA (DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM) |     |     |     |     |     | Taxonomy-aligned (A.1) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2) proportion of CapEx 2022 | Enabling activities category | Transition activities |   |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                              |         |           |                          |                                         |                |                |                |                |                |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                                |         |           |                          |                                         |                |                |                |                |                |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                         | CCM 3.3 | 20,029    | 32.6                     | Y                                       | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | Y                                      | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y                                                                          | 34.5                         | E                     |   |
| Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen                                                              | CCM 3.2 | 37        | 0.1                      | Y                                       | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | Y                                      | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y                                                                          | 0.1                          | E                     |   |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                 | CCM 3.6 | 24        | 0.0                      | Y                                       | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | Y                                      | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y                                                                          | -                            | E                     |   |
| CapEx from environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                   |         | 20,091    | 32.7                     | 32.7                                    | –              | –              | –              | –              | –              | Y                                      | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y                                                                          | 34.5                         |                       |   |
| Of which enabling activities                                                                                                 |         | 20,091    | 32.7                     | 32.7                                    | –              | –              | –              | –              | –              | Y                                      | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y   | Y                                                                          | 34.5                         | E                     |   |
| Of which transition activities                                                                                               |         | -         | -                        | -                                       |                |                |                |                |                | –                                      | –   | –   | –   | –   | –   | -                                                                          |                              |                       |   |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned)              |         |           |                          | EL; N/EL3                               | EL; N/EL3      | EL; N/EL3      | EL; N/EL3      | EL; N/EL3      | EL; N/EL3      |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                         | CCM 3.3 | 41,099    | 66.9                     | EL                                      | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            | 64.9                         |                       |   |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                 | CCM 3.6 | 60        | 0.1                      | EL                                      | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL           |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            | 0.1                          |                       |   |
| CapEx from taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) |         | 41,160    | 67.0                     | 67.0                                    | –              | –              | –              | –              | –              |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            | 65.1                         |                       |   |
| CapEx from taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                          |         | 61,250    | 99.6                     | 99.6                                    | –              | –              | –              | –              | –              |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            | 99.6                         |                       |   |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                          |         |           |                          |                                         |                |                |                |                |                |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |
| CapEx from activities that are not taxonomy-eligible (B)                                                                     |         | 221       | 0.4                      |                                         |                |                |                |                |                |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                                |         | 61,472    | 100.0                    |                                         |                |                |                |                |                |                                        |     |     |     |     |     |                                                                            |                              |                       |   |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total capital expenditure.

2 Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: 'Not eligible', activity not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant environmental objective. 

3 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: Activity that is not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant objective.

## Page 214

#### **OPERATING EXPENDITURE 2023**

| Economic activities                                                                                                         | Code    | OpEx      | Proportion of OpEx 2023 | CRITERIA FOR A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION |                           |             |             |                  | DNSH CRITERIA (DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM) |                           |       |           |                  | Minimum safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned (A.1) or taxonomy-eligible (A.2) proportion of OpEx 2022 | Enabling activities category | Transition activities |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|-----------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------|-------------|------------------|----------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------|-----------|------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------|--|
|                                                                                                                             |         | € million | %1                      | Climate change mitigation               | Climate change adaptation | Water       | Pollution   | Circular economy | Climate change mitigation              | Climate change adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity       |                                                                           | %1                           |                       |  |
|                                                                                                                             |         |           |                         | Y; N; N/EL2                             | Y; N; N/EL2               | Y; N; N/EL2 | Y; N; N/EL2 | Y; N; N/EL2      | Y/N                                    | Y/N                       | Y/N   | Y/N       | Y/N              | Y/N                | Y/N                                                                       |                              | E                     |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                             |         |           |                         |                                         |                           |             |             |                  |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                               |         |           |                         |                                         |                           |             |             |                  |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                        | CCM 3.3 | 5,737     | 43.2                    | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL        | N/EL        | N/EL             | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y                  |                                                                           | 42.7                         | E                     |  |
| Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen                                                             | CCM 3.2 | 9         | 0.1                     | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL        | N/EL        | N/EL             | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y                  |                                                                           | 0.0                          | E                     |  |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                | CCM 3.6 | 61        | 0.5                     | Y                                       | N/EL                      | N/EL        | N/EL        | N/EL             | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y                  |                                                                           | -                            | E                     |  |
| OpEx from environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                   |         | 5,807     | 43.8                    | 43.8                                    | -                         | -           | -           | -                | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y                  |                                                                           | 42.7                         |                       |  |
| Of which enabling activities                                                                                                |         | 5,807     | 43.8                    | 43.8                                    | -                         | -           | -           | -                | Y                                      | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y                  |                                                                           | 42.7                         | E                     |  |
| Of which transition activities                                                                                              |         | -         | -                       | -                                       | -                         | -           | -           | -                | -                                      | -                         | -     | -         | -                | -                  |                                                                           | -                            |                       |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned)             |         |           |                         | EL; N/EL3                               | EL; N/EL3                 | EL; N/EL3   | EL; N/EL3   | EL; N/EL3        |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                        | CCM 3.3 | 7,156     | 53.9                    | EL                                      | N/EL                      | N/EL        | N/EL        | N/EL             |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           | 54.4                         |                       |  |
| Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies                                                                                | CCM 3.6 | 158       | 1.2                     | EL                                      | N/EL                      | N/EL        | N/EL        | N/EL             |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           | 1.7                          |                       |  |
| OpEx from taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (activities that are not taxonomy-aligned) (A.2) |         | 7,314     | 55.1                    | 55.1                                    | -                         | -           | -           | -                |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           | 56.1                         |                       |  |
| OpEx from taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                          |         | 13,120    | 98.9                    | 98.9                                    | -                         | -           | -           | -                |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           | 98.9                         |                       |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                         |         |           |                         |                                         |                           |             |             |                  |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |
| OpEx from activities that are not taxonomy-eligible (B)                                                                     |         | 145       | 1.1                     |                                         |                           |             |             |                  |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                               |         | 13,265    | 100.0                   |                                         |                           |             |             |                  |                                        |                           |       |           |                  |                    |                                                                           |                              |                       |  |

1 All percentages relate to the Group's total operating expenditure.

2 Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity and taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity but not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: 'Not eligible', activity not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant environmental objective. 

3 EL: Taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: Activity that is not taxonomy-eligible for the relevant objective.

## Page 215

# <span id="page-214-0"></span>Report on Expected Developments

The global economy is expected to grow in 2024, albeit at a slower pace. Global demand for passenger cars will probably vary from region to region and increase slightly year-on-year.

In the following, we describe the expected development of the Volkswagen Group and the general framework for its business activities. Risks and opportunities that could represent a departure from the forecast trends are presented in the Report on Risks and Opportunities.

Our assumptions are based on current estimates by third-party institutions. These include economic research institutes, banks, multinational organizations and consulting firms.

#### **DEVELOPMENTS IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY**

Our planning is based on the assumption that global economic output will grow overall in 2024 compared with 2023, albeit at a slower pace. The persistently high inflation in major economic regions and the resulting restrictive monetary policy measures taken by central banks are expected to continue to dampen consumer demand. We continue to believe that risks will arise from protectionist tendencies, turbulence in the financial markets and structural deficits in individual countries. In addition, continuing geopolitical tensions and conflicts are weighing on growth prospects; risks are associated in particular with the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the confrontations in the Middle East. We assume that both the advanced economies and the emerging markets will show positive momentum on average, but with below-average growth in gross domestic product (GDP).

We also expect the global economy to recover in 2025 and continue a path of stable growth until 2028.

### **Europe/Other Markets**

In Western Europe, we expect a comparatively low rate of economic growth in 2024. The relatively high overall level of inflation, albeit projected to taper off further as the year goes on, poses a major challenge for consumers and companies alike, as do the relatively high interest rates. It is therefore possible that the European Central Bank (ECB) might make the first cuts in key rates of interest as early as 2024 to support the eurozone economy.

We likewise anticipate a higher growth rate compared with the prior year in Central Europe in 2024 with continuing but less dynamic price increases. Meanwhile, economic output in Eastern Europe should recover further following the heavy slump in 2022 as a result of the Russia Ukraine conflict and the relatively strong increase in 2023.

For Türkiye we expect positive, albeit slower GDP growth than in the reporting year given high inflation and a weak local currency. The South African economy will probably be characterized by political uncertainty and

## Page 216

social tensions again in 2024 resulting from high unemployment, among other factors. Growth is expected to be higher than in the previous year but remain at a low level.

# **Germany**

We expect only low growth in GDP in Germany in 2024. Meanwhile, averaged over the year, we anticipate that inflation will fall further but remain relatively high. The labor market situation is likely to deteriorate.

# **North America**

We anticipate subdued economic growth in the USA in 2024, accompanied by a worsening labor market situation. Similarly to the ECB, it is possible that the US Federal Reserve might start cutting its key interest rate as early as 2024. Further inflationary trends will play a decisive role in possible adjustments to the key rate, as will developments in the labor market and in the general economic situation. Economic growth in Canada is likely to be at a relatively low level, while economic output in Mexico is expected to expand at a somewhat faster pace by comparison.

# **South America**

In all probability, the Brazilian economy will record a slightly positive rate of growth in 2024. In Argentina, economic output is likely to deteriorate further with very high and rising inflation levels and depreciation of the local currency.

# **Asia-Pacific**

The Chinese economy is expected to grow at a relatively high level in 2024, albeit at a somewhat lower rate than in the reporting year. We likewise expect a relatively high rate of positive GDP growth for the Indian economy in 2024. Japan is expected to post only low growth in economic output.

# **TRENDS IN THE MARKETS FOR PASSENGER CARS AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES**

The trend in the automotive industry closely follows global economic developments. We assume that competition in the international automotive markets will intensify further. Crisis-related disruption to the global supply chain and the resulting impact on vehicle availability may weigh on the volume of new registrations. Uncertainty may also arise from shortages of intermediates and commodities. These may be further exacerbated by the consequences of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the confrontations in the Middle East and may, in particular, lead to rising prices for materials and a declining availability of energy.

We predict that trends in the markets for passenger cars in the individual regions will be mixed but predominantly positive in 2024. Overall, the global volume of new car sales is expected to be slightly higher than in the previous year. We are forecasting growing demand for passenger cars worldwide in the period from 2025 to 2028.

Trends in the markets for light commercial vehicles in the individual regions will be mixed; on the whole, we expect the sales volume for 2024 to be slightly above the previous year's figure. For the years 2025 to 2028, we expect demand for light commercial vehicles to increase globally.

# **Europe/Other Markets**

For 2024, we anticipate that the volume of new passenger car registrations in Western Europe will be slightly higher than that recorded in the reporting year. Limited vehicle availability as a result of the shortages of intermediates and commodities may continue to weigh on the volume of new registrations. For the major individual markets of France, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain, we expect growth in 2024 to varying degrees between slight and noticeable.

## Page 217

For light commercial vehicles, we expect the volume of new registrations in Western Europe in 2024 to be noticeably up on the previous year's level. Limited vehicle availability as a result of the shortages of intermediates and commodities may continue to weigh on the volume of new registrations. We expect a noticeable to significant increase in France and the United Kingdom. In Italy, we anticipate that registrations will fall slightly, whereas we expect slight growth in Spain.

Sales of passenger cars in 2024 are expected to significantly exceed the prior-year figures overall in markets in Central and Eastern Europe – subject to the further development of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. We expect a mixed development in the major markets of this region.

Subject to the further development of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, registrations of light commercial vehicles in the markets of Central and Eastern Europe are expected to fall slightly short of the prior-year figures in 2024.

The volume of new registrations for passenger cars in Türkiye in 2024 is projected to fall considerably short of the previous year's high level. In South Africa, the market volume is likely to be up noticeably year-on-year.

The volume of new registrations for light commercial vehicles in 2024 is expected to fall very sharply in Türkiye but to be noticeably above the prior-year figure in South Africa.

# **Germany**

In the German passenger car market, we expect the volume of new registrations in 2024 to be slightly up on the prior-year level.

We anticipate that the number of registrations of light commercial vehicles in 2024 will also be slightly up on the previous year's figure.

# **North America**

The sales volume in the markets for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (up to 6.35 tonnes) in North America overall and in the USA in 2024 is forecast to be slightly higher than the level seen in the previous year. Demand will probably remain highest for models in the SUV and pickup segments. New registrations of allelectric vehicles are also expected to increase strongly. In Canada, too, a slight increase is expected in the number of new registrations compared to the previous year. For Mexico, we also expect a slight increase in new registrations compared with the reporting year.

# **South America**

Owing to their dependence on demand for raw materials worldwide, the South American markets for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles are heavily influenced by developments in the global economy. We anticipate a slight increase overall in new registrations in the South American markets in 2024 compared with the previous year. The market volume in Brazil is expected to increase noticeably compared with 2023. We anticipate that the volume of new registrations in Argentina will be slightly lower year-on-year.

## **Asia-Pacific**

The passenger car markets in the Asia-Pacific region are expected to be slightly up on the prior-year level in 2024. We estimate that the market volume in China will also be slightly higher than the comparative figure for 2023. Plug-in hybrid models with long ranges are likely to be increasingly in demand. A weaker than expected economic recovery or worsening geopolitical tensions may have adverse effects. In particular, the trade dispute between China and the United States is likely to continue to weigh on business and consumer confidence, as long as there is no resolution in sight. We project that the Indian and Japanese markets will remain at the prioryear level.

The volume of new registrations for light commercial vehicles in the Asia-Pacific region in 2024 will probably be slightly higher than the previous year's figure. We are expecting demand in the Chinese market to be slightly lower than the prior-year level. For India, we are forecasting that the volume in 2024 will be on a level with the reporting year. In the Japanese market, we estimate that volumes will be slightly lower year-on-year.
