## Page 244

Image /page/243/Picture/1 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe-like symbol on the left and the words "PROSEGUR" and "CASH" on the right. The word "PROSEGUR" is above the word "CASH".

included in the data management process to facilitate the teams' identification and correct qualification. This, together with the improvement of management processes in all countries and especially in countries with less mature upstream processes, has allowed the incorporation of waste that was previously out of focus. Of particular note is the growth in the categories related to the direct management of own maintenance of heavy fleet, electronic waste and other waste directly linked to the operation.

*Prosegur Cash achieves a reduction in toner and paper waste thanks to a new printing model, teleworking and process digitisation.*

#### **Responsible water management**

Prosegur Cash's activities are not intensive in water use. Nevertheless, **the company is aware of the enormous challenges facing the planet with regard to this scarce commodity.**

In 2023, the rainwater collection project in Brazil was completed with the incorporation of nine operational bases. Thus, the initiative, which began to be deployed in 2022, has earmarked more than 2,500 litres for sanitary and productive uses, which translates into a **10% savings in the total consumption of the facilities.**

Other water efficiency measures include **consumption-saving systems in toilets and showers** in Colombia and Peru, an experience that will be replicated in other countries, taking advantage of building refurbishment works.

#### **Awareness raising and volunteering to face the sustainable challenge**

As part of its commitment to combating climate change, **Prosegur Cash prioritise the environmental awareness of our target market** through communication campaigns, training activities and corporate volunteering.

Among the novelties introduced or developed in this regard in 2023, the following stand out:

- <sup>J</sup> **Biodiversity Safari:** Prosegur Cash volunteers in various Latin American countries have reinforced their commitment and passion for the care of nature through the on-line challenge "Safari on biodiversity", together with the Fundación Vida Silvestre Argentina. Accompanied by specialised guides, participants go into natural areas such as wetlands and mountain ranges to identify and document (in the iNaturalist app) trees, insects, birds and other animals, thus contributing to the knowledge and conservation of biodiversity.
- <sup>J</sup> **Pro360:** Within the framework of the Global Wellness Programme, Pro360, the company promotes environmental care through information and competitions on mountains, global warming, wetlands, climate and recycling, as well as the promotion of the bicycle as a means of transport. This is a global programme, simultaneously rolled out in all the countries where Prosegur is present.

## Page 245

<span id="page-244-0"></span>When can it be said with certainty that a business activity is sustainable from an environmental point of view? The answer to this question is not simple and, in fact, the lack of a criterion that specifies the degree of sustainability of a project **is considered a strategic barrier to sustainable development.** The objective of the European Taxonomy that is part of the Sustainable Finance Plan of the European Union is to remedy this deficiency in the following way:

<sup>J</sup> By establishing the **criteria and guidelines for measuring** the degree of sustainability and unifying the reporting systems to facilitate comparisons.

# **5.2.1. Introduction to taxonomy**

The taxonomy regulation considers **six environmental objectives:** climate change mitigation; adaptation to climate change; sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources; transition to a circular economy; protection and recovery of biodiversity and ecosystems, and pollution prevention and control.

To be **aligned with the taxonomy** a business activity must contribute directly to one of the six, not cause significant harm to the rest, and ensure minimum social guarantees. In order to facilitate their evaluation, companies must provide detailed information on the proportion of their turnover, their capital (Capex) and their operating expenses (Opex) associated with environmentally sustainable economic activities, in addition to the quantitative calculation methodology of the indicators.

Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 18 June 2020, on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (hereinafter, "taxonomy" or "the regulation") **serves as a** 

- <sup>J</sup> **By helping investors to make decisions** and companies to better plan their sustainable transition, as well as the information they disclose.
- <sup>J</sup> **By aligning business projects with major environmental agreements** such as the Green Deal or the Paris Agreement.
- <sup>J</sup> **By contributing to financing the transition** towards a carbon-neutral, resilient and sustainable community economy.

**standard and obligatory classification system** for determining which economic activities are considered "environmentally sustainable" in the EU.

In 2023, **the EU extended the climate taxonomy** to include new economic activities that contribute to the first two environmental targets published until 2022. It also **approved the new non-climatic environmental taxonomy** with the criteria for identifying the catalogue of sustainable activities covering the remaining four environmental objectives: sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources; transition to a circular economy; protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, and; pollution prevention and control.

**Companies should therefore report annually on the classification of their activities as "environmentally sustainable"**, in accordance with EU taxonomy. This will require an initial distinction between Taxonomy-Eligibility and Taxonomy-Alignment.

## Page 246

<span id="page-245-0"></span>Image /page/245/Picture/1 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe-like symbol on the left, followed by the word "PROSEGUR" in bold, uppercase letters. Below "PROSEGUR" is the word "CASH" in a smaller, bold, uppercase font.

First, it is necessary to examine whether or not an activity is described in Appendices I and II of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139, as amended by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485, and in Appendices I, II, III and IV of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486, as **only these activities can be eligible** for taxonomy.

A second step requires an **analysis on whether the activities previously identified as eligible for taxonomy may be considered aligned** with it and, therefore, "environmentally sustainable".

#### **Subject matter and scope**

In accordance with Article 1.1, Regulation (EU) 2020/852 **applies to companies that are subject to an obligation to publish a nonfinancial reporting statement** or consolidated non-financial reporting statement in keeping with article 19(a) or article 29(a) of Directive 2013/34(EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council, respectively.

In accordance with these regulatory obligations, Prosegur Cash, S.A. is obligated to comply with Taxonomy and to report the specific Key Performance Indicators (hereinafter, 'KPI') on the eligibility and alignment of its activities.

Therefore, **on the basis of an integral analysis of its economic activities,** Prosegur Cash, S.A. provides the proportion of turnover Capex and Opex eligible for taxonomy in their respective totals for financial year 2023.

This process includes the analysis of the company's percentage of Turnover, Capex and Opex at the consolidated group level for all divisions, companies and subsidiaries.

In this respect, a cross-cutting category has been identified into which the company's activities fit:

<sup>J</sup> Transport, especially with regard to road transport services and transport by motorcycle, car and light commercial vehicle, and also the operation of personal transport or mobility devices powered by the physical activity of the user.

# **5.2.2. Main results**

During the 2023 financial year, Prosegur Cash, S.A. obtained a total turnover of EUR 1,861.3 thousand, with a total Capex of EUR 106.0 million and a total Opex of EUR 114.1 million.

The analysis carried out established the following percentages of eligibility, non-eligibility, alignment and non-alignment in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2020/852. These results are described in Annex 8.1.2.

## Page 247

# <span id="page-246-0"></span>**5.2.3. Qualitative information**

In accordance with point 1.2 of Annex I to the Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852, in the 2023 financial year non-financial entities should report the following qualitative information.

#### **5.2.3.1. Accounting policy**

As an explanation prior to the accounting policy, it is convenient to detail the definitions of the indicators applied to the company reality.

Turnover is defined as all income of the Group that conforms to the taxonomy. The items excluded from this heading are detailed below.

Capex (Capital Expenditure) is the expenditure on capital equipment that generates profits, either through the acquisition of new fixed assets or through an increase in the value of existing fixed assets. Based on the definition of assets included in the Conceptual Framework of the International Financial Reporting Standards, Prosegur Cash includes the investment made in the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, i.e. tangible fixed assets and computer software under Capex. Purchased capital goods that generate profits for the Group. Furthermore, Prosegur Cash controls the assets acquired. The investment made can be either through the acquisition of new fixed assets or through an increase in the value of existing fixed assets. Additions to fixed assets and goodwill arising from the integration of the financial statements of companies acquired in business combinations are not considered Capex by the Group and are disclosed as a separate line item in the year's movement in "Business combinations".

Finally, it qualifies all the accounting accounts established by the regulation and detailed under this heading as Opex.

Next is a description of the manner in which the turnover, capital and operating expenses were determined and how the numerator and denominator for each indicator was assigned.

In order to calculate the amount and percentage of eligibility of the activities of Prosegur Cash within the different indicators, the company has taken the total amount of turnover, Capex and specific Opex required by the regulation for the activities that are eligible according to Annexes I and II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 of the Commission, as amended by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485 of the Commission, and Annexes I, II, III and IV of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486:

<sup>J</sup> Vehicles related to the eligible activity 6. Transport.

To report Capex and Opex ratios, purchases of assets and processes or services were assessed and it was considered that if they are essential for an eligible activity in particular, they are likewise eligible.

In the case of the turnover indicator, the accounts are identified within the revenue of the financial year on the basis of the Delegated Regulation (EU). Intercompany income, grants or donations, among others, are not considered. Once this figure is obtained, which would be the denominator of the turnover calculation, the eligible income is taken (see details below in the section "Assessment of compliance with Regulation 2020/852"). Regarding the alignment, the income generated by elements that meet the technical criteria of the Taxonomy are considered in the numerator, having the same turnover as for eligibility as denominator.

## Page 248

<span id="page-247-0"></span>In calculating the Capex, the set of projects reported by the different countries is analysed, the amount of which is taken in its entirety. In this case the accounts are divided into two main groups, 'clients' and 'infrastructures', which are in turn divided into sub-categories that are itemised differently according to the COCE (Cost Centre). This figure is the indicator's denominator. To obtain the numerator, all eligible activities are taken into account (see the details below in the section on "Assessment of compliance with Regulation 2020/852"). Regarding the alignment, those elements acquired in the year that meet the technical criteria of the Taxonomy are considered aligned with it and therefore form part of the numerator. As a denominator, the same Capex is taken into account as for eligibility.

Lastly, for the Opex, the accounts are identified on the basis of the Delegated Regulation (EU) whose type corresponds to expenses in research and development, renovation of existing buildings, short-term lease expenses and maintenance and repairs or expenses that ensure proper asset operation. Once this figure is obtained, which will serve as the denominator for calculation of the Opex, the amount of the numerator should be identified, which is the sum of operating expenses of the Prosegur Cash eligible activities (see the details below in the section on 'Assessment of compliance with Regulation 2020/852'). Regarding alignment, it was not possible to determine the numerator without sufficient documentary information.

In order to prevent counting those activities twice, the organisation has established supervision and control measures necessary to ensure the consistency and reliability of the process to extract and transform the information, and by doing so guarantee the integrity and traceability of the information from its source through the reporting of the calculated indicators. To do so it has defined the appropriate responsibilities and mechanisms for segregation of duties that enable supervision of the process tasks, as well as to ensure the uniformity of accounting criteria used and avoid any duplicity in the assignment of inter-company activities or relations in the various indicators.

#### **5.2.3.2. Assessment of compliance with Regulation (EU) 2020/852**

In accordance with point 1.2.2.2 of Annex I of the Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852, Prosegur has carried out an analysis to determine whether any of its activities are included in the activities described in Annexes I and II of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139, as amended by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485, and in Annexes I, II, III and IV of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486.

Despite the fact that Prosegur Cash's main activity is identified with NACE code N80.19 (Private Security Activities), and this activity is not included in any of the above documents, the Company has identified a series of transversal activities that are eligible and included as potentially sustainable activities covered in Regulation (EU) 2020/852. The following logical sequence was used for this identification:

## Page 249

<span id="page-248-0"></span>Image /page/248/Figure/2 description: The image is a flowchart with yellow boxes and lines. The first box asks, "Is Prosegur's NACE included in the Annexes of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139, as amended by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485, and in Annexes I, II, III and IV of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486?" There are two possible answers: "NO" and "YES". If the answer is "NO", the flowchart moves to the next box, which asks, "For each of Prosegur's business lines, are activities identified that have the potential to contribute substantially to the requirements of Article 9 and in accordance with Articles 10 to 16 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852?" If the answer to the first question is "YES", the flowchart ends with the statement "The activity is eligible". If the answer to the second question is "NO", the flowchart ends with the statement "The activity is not eligible". If the answer to the second question is "YES", the flowchart moves to the next box, which asks, "Is the description of the identified activity included in the Annexes of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 as amended by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485 and in Annexes I, II, III and IV of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486?" If the answer to this question is "NO", the flowchart ends with the statement "The activity is not eligible". If the answer to this question is "YES", the flowchart ends with the statement "The activity is eligible".

To assess compliance with the description of the activities identified in the Annexes of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 as amended by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485, specifically with regard to 6. Transport', the model was considered in terms of vehicle use (lease, ownership...), vehicle type, characteristics, fuel and the Prosegur Cash business area to which it is assigned. This makes it possible to conclude whether the various vehicles comply with the descriptions of the major activities:

- <sup>J</sup> 6.5.: Purchase, financing, renting, leasing and operation of vehicles designated as category M1 and N1, or L (2- and 3-wheel vehicles and quadricycles).
- <sup>J</sup> 6.6.: Purchase, financing, leasing, rental and operation of vehicles designated as category N1, N2 or N3 falling under the scope of EURO VI (242), step E or its successor, for freight transport services by road.

#### **5.2.3.3. Contextual information on eligibility indicators and alignment**

As a step prior to explaining the indicators, a brief explanation of compliance with the technical alignment criteria for each activity, as well as a brief justification for compliance with them is provided below.

#### **Climate change mitigation**

#### **Activity 6.5: Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles.**

The technical criterion of substantial contribution to the mitigation of climate change determines that in order to be considered aligned, the M1 and N1 category means of transport must have emissions of under 50g CO2/Km. In the case of

L-category vehicles, emissions must be zero. Therefore, only zero emission vehicles have been taken into account. In all cases, the vehicle data sheets are checked for this information.

Regarding the criterion of not doing significant harm, the activity must comply with the criteria established for material climate risk involving the activity and have a sound vulnerability assessment (no material risks affecting this activity were identified with the methodology used), recycling conditions (minimum 85% by weight) and reuse (minimum 95% by weight) as well as tyre requirements in rolling efficiency (of the two highest efficiency classes) and external rolling noise (of the highest efficiency class). Therefore, only zero-emission vehicles that meet these conditions have been taken into account.

## Page 250

Image /page/249/Picture/1 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe with a line through it on the left, and the word "PROSEGUR" in bold, uppercase letters on the right. Below "PROSEGUR" is the word "CASH" in bold, uppercase letters.

Image /page/249/Picture/2 description: A high-angle shot shows a straight road cutting through a dense green forest, with a yellow car driving on it. A large, translucent globe is superimposed over the left side of the image, partially covering the forest and road. The globe features a swirling pattern of blue and white, resembling a hurricane, and green landmasses. The road is gray with yellow lines marking the lanes. The forest is lush and green, with a variety of trees and foliage. The yellow car is small in comparison to the landscape, but it stands out against the gray road.

#### **Activity 6.6: Freight transport services by road.**

The technical criteria for a substantial contribution towards the mitigation of climate change defines that, in order to be considered as aligned, the medium of transport must comply with the following criteria: for the N1 category, they must have an emission level of 0 g CO2/ Km, for N2 and N3 vehicles, they must not have a maximum laden mass in excess of 7.5 tonnes, and for N2 and N3 with higher loads, they must be zero-emission vehicles or comply with the criteria for low-emission heavy vehicles. In addition, those vehicles cannot be used for transporting fossil fuels. Therefore, only zero emission vehicles have been taken into account. In all cases, the vehicle data sheets are checked for this information.

Regarding the criterion of not doing significant harm, the activity must comply with the criteria established for material climate risk involving the activity and have a sound vulnerability assessment (no material risks affecting this activity were identified with the methodology

used), recycling conditions (minimum 85% by weight) and reuse (minimum 95% by weight) as well as tyre requirements in rolling efficiency (of the two highest efficiency classes) and external rolling noise (of the highest efficiency class). Therefore, only zero-emission vehicles that meet these conditions have been taken into account.

#### **Climate change adaptation**

In terms of adaptation, the contribution to adaptation is not substantial.

#### **Minimum social safeguards**

With regard to the minimum social safeguards for the activities listed above, it considers any economic activity to be aligned if it is carried out in accordance with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations Guiding Principles on business and human rights. Prosegur Cash applies an approach based

## Page 251

on the development of due diligence processes in its operations and business decisions, which allows it to identify, prevent, mitigate and justify the way in which impacts on the economy, the environment and people are managed. These issues are developed in depth in point 6.2 Respect for Human Rights of this report.

In terms of anti-corruption, Prosegur consolidates its commitment to principle number 10 of the United Nations Global Compact, which obliges its subscribers not only to avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption, but also to develop specific policies and programmes to promote transparency. The company's Anti-Corruption Policy is explained in point 7.2.1. Corporate compliance.

In matters of competition, Prosegur maintains strict observance of the applicable regulations in its relations with other companies and market operators, a subject which is expanded on in point 7.2.1. Corporate compliance.

Finally, in terms of tax policy, the company follows the OECD guidelines, summarised in the series of recommendations suggested in the document Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. In point 7.2.2. Further details can be found on public administrations and tax contributions.

#### **Explanation of results**

In keeping with point 1.2.3 of Annex I to the Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852, the informed results of the key indicators reported under 'main results' are set out, specifically the criteria applied and assumptions reached:

#### **Turnover**

For the transport activities considered eligible (6.5.: Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles; and 6.6.: Freight transport services by road), and given that this is a business with a high transport component (security logistics, ATM and Smart Cash maintenance, international transport, etc.), the revenue generated for the transport activities considered eligible has been taken into account. To do this, we have taken: (i) the revenue generated by direct transport reported for the year; and (ii) a percentage derived from the use of transport for new business, transport not being the main source of its revenue. Regarding alignment, the amount of Turnover per active vehicle in the 2023 financial year was calculated and extrapolated to all vehicles that meet the technical alignment criteria.

Given the difficulty in breaking down the eligible turnover figure for the activity 6.5.: Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles, this is calculated on the percentage that this type of vehicles represents in alignment, where we do have the vehicle categorisation. Activity 6.6.: Service for the carriage of goods by road, takes into account all items of transport in the business.

#### **Capex**

Starting from the *'Capex cube'*, which includes the amount of the indicator for the entire company, it is identified that the transport activities are made up of the 'traffic and fleet' and 'armoured' business lines, which are selected in their entirety as eligible items. Alignment takes into consideration the Capex ratio per vehicle as a calculation that can be extrapolated to all vehicles that meet the technical criteria for alignment. Given the difficulty in breaking down the eligible Capex for the activities 6.5.: Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles, this is calculated on the percentage that this type of vehicles represents in alignment, where we do have the vehicle categorisation. Activity

## Page 252

6.6.: Service for the carriage of goods by road, takes into account all items of transport in the business.

#### **Opex**

For the transport activities, and taking into account that Opex only records expenditure on vehicles with a duration of less than one year or a cost of less than USD 5,000, the company has defined all costs associated with vehicle rental as eligible. As regards alignment and since these are transactional costs such as one-off vehicle rentals, it does not have evidence that supports compliance with the technical alignment criteria.

#### **Conclusions**

This year's eligibility and alignment results are presented in the tables in Section 8.1.2.

In this regard, it should be noted that the contribution to the climate change mitigation goal is as follows:

<sup>J</sup> Turnover. Currently, the turnover of environmentally sustainable activities that are in line with the taxonomy comes from the business's activities of transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles. The difference between the eligibility indicator (61.31%) and the alignment indicator (0.04%) is due to the fact that, although the Company's activity accounts for a significant percentage of its eligible sales, it cannot demonstrate alignment because it cannot provide its services with heavy transport elements that meet the required technical criteria. For example, there are currently no viable solutions that meet the requirements of the private security laws in the main

countries where the company operates in terms of type of armouring and at the same time meet the technical criteria of substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives described in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139. Also, concerning the technical criterion of the activity not causing significant harm 6.5.: Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, establishes in its fourth condition that vehicles must comply with two conditions of weight percentage for reuse and recovery. This document must be supplied by the manufacturers and it has not been possible to obtain it.

- <sup>J</sup> *Capex.* The difference between the eligibility indicator (13.15%) and the alignment indicator (0.00%) is mainly due to the fact that, despite there being additions of "traffic and fleet" and "armoured" assets in the business, none of these meet the technical criteria described in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 because there are no viable solutions that meet the requirements described in the previous section.
- <sup>J</sup> *Opex*. The difference between the eligibility indicator (5.32%) and the alignment indicator (0.00%) is due to the fact that it is not possible to demonstrate alignment as these are transactional costs, such as the occasional rental of vehicles, for which the company does not have evidence to support compliance with the technical criteria described in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139.

Prosegur Cash, as a benchmark in its sector, is working to improve its alignment ratios. Projects to this end are detailed in chapter 5 of this report.

## Page 253

# 6 Social

<span id="page-252-0"></span>6. Social

Image /page/252/Picture/2 description: The image shows a gray icon of a hand holding three people connected by lines. The hand is open and facing upwards, with the three people above it. The people are connected by lines, suggesting a network or team.

## Page 254

# 6Social

*People who look after people.*

Prosegur Cash has **three major tools to ensure compliance with all domestic legislation on employment rights, safety in the workplace and strict observance of human rights.** They have been designed and approved with the purpose of developing the company's commitment in these key aspects, sometimes exceeding the scope established by that legislation.

One is the new **Sustainability Master Plan 2021-2023 which focuses three of its four guiding principles on the Company's social responsibility:** Ethics, transparency and governance; People as the protagonists for creating a fair and motivating working environment, and Safe Work. The other two tools are the Occupational Health and Safety Policy and the Human Rights Policy, which we will take a closer look at below.

#### **A year of positive progress**

In 2023, Prosegur has maintained its favourable evolution in social matters with the improvement of talent selection and loyalty processes, internal protocols for the evaluation of professional performance, active listening to employees and the **promotion of values such as equal opportunities** between men and women, respect for diversity and the fight against all types of discrimination.

The company reaffirms its **commitment to labour and human rights,** the promotion of well-being in the workplace and protecting personal data, both in its own organisation over 31 countries, and in its extensive supply chains.

It sees itself as a company of people who protect people, hence **the importance of training teams** to fulfil this goal. It also encourages teleworking in those activities that allow it in order to contribute to work-life balance.

Notwithstanding a complicated economic context, the workforce has stabilised, recovering pre-pandemic volumes, in line with the corporate strategy of organic growth. **The merger agreement between Prosegur Cash and Armaguard** to create a new cash-in-transit and cash management company in Australia promises to boost this trend, as well as the acquisition of WSN in Germany.

In 2023, Prosegur Group's labour policy as a whole received recognition in the ranking of **the 500 most important companies in Spain**  (awarded by the newspaper El Economista), being one of the three with the highest number of employees. According to this assessment, it also occupies some of the top positions in the provision of services to other companies, security and technology.

## Page 255

# <span id="page-254-0"></span>**6.1. EMPLOYEES AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT**

GRI 102-8, 402-1

In Prosegur Cash understands the relationship with our employees as **a mutually beneficial agreement and long-term vocation** with a direct impact on the quality of our services.

This way of conceiving labour relations implies compliance with all legislative obligations regarding employment and social security. At the same time, we guarantee clients that the Prosegur Cash **teams are formed by people who are not only efficient from a professional point of view,** but also reliable and trustworthy on a personal level.

Therefore, the selection of talent prioritises, in addition to technical skills, **a high level of ethical values and qualities** indispensable to protect assets and people, such as a sense of responsibility, honesty and psychological maturity.

Investing in the best possible human capital allows Prosegur Cash's ethical and professional commitments to be fulfilled more effectively, and therefore helps to achieve the social purpose that the company measures with its clients' satisfaction. Taking care of this investment implies **a process of continuous improvement in the selection processes,** firstly to find the most suitable people. Later, to maintain their long-term loyalty.

#### **Leadership Model, the pillar of talent management**

Prosegur Cash has developed its particular leadership model as the **framework that governs the behaviour of all employees,**

irrespective of their activity, business, country or hierarchical position, and which structures talent management processes based on these basic principles:

- <sup>J</sup> Passion for clients.
- <sup>J</sup> Results orientation.
- <sup>J</sup> Transformation and innovation.
- <sup>J</sup> Responsibility and commitment.
- <sup>J</sup> Team spirit.

Management tools designed to optimise the work of teams are derived from these principles:

- <sup>J</sup> **Personnel selection.** Based on homogeneous and detailed candidate information, it is applied in a standardised way and supported by technological and management tools that improve the candidate experience and help attract the best possible talent.
- <sup>J</sup> **Onboarding, the step from candidate to employee.** In 2023, Prosegur's priority was to offer the best possible experience to its new structural employees. To this end, managers have been trained on the importance of ensuring a good onboarding process for their new employees in a structured way and putting in the necessary time. For their part, new employees follow a training itinerary with courses that ease them in during the first months, with a special focus on the content of Compliance (regulatory compliance).
- <sup>J</sup> **180º Performance assessment.** It allows structural employees to self-evaluate and to be evaluated by their manager. In 2022, evaluation 180º was incorporated into the process, where the employee also has the opportunity to assess the performance of their manager, and thus maintain a bidirectional feedback conversation with the aim of establishing development plans for both. Having been well received since its launch in 2022, the model has been

## Page 329

Image /page/328/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe-like icon on the left, followed by the word "PROSEGUR" in bold, uppercase letters. Below "PROSEGUR" is the word "CASH", also in bold, uppercase letters.

## Page 330

# <span id="page-329-0"></span>**8.1.2. European Taxonomy on Sustainability results**

| Financial year 2023                                                                                                       | Economic activities                                                                                       |         | Year             |                           | Substantial contribution criteria |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    | No significant harm criteria ("Does not cause significant harm") |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------|-----------|------------------|--------------|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                           | Text                                                                                                      | Codes   | Turnover         | Turnover proportion, 2023 | Climate change mitigation         | Climate change adaptation | Water              | Pollution          | Circular economy   | Biodiversity       | Climate change mitigation                                        | Climate change adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity | Minimum guarantees | Proportion of turnover conforming to taxonomy (A.1) or eligible according to taxonomy (A.2), year 2022 | Category facilitating activity | Category transition activity |
|                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                           |         | €                | %                         | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c)                | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c)        | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y/N                                                              | Y/N                       | Y/N   | Y/N       | Y/N              | Y/N          | Y/N                | %                                                                                                      | E                              | T                            |
|                                                                                                                           | A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                          |         |                  |                           |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomic)                                                    |         |                  |                           |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles                                               | MCC 6.5 | 739,171.52       | 0.04                      | Y                                 | N/EL                      | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | Y                                                                | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y                  | 0.03                                                                                                   |                                | T                            |
|                                                                                                                           | Turnover from environmentally sustainable activities (that conform to the Taxonomy) (A.1)                 |         | 739,171.52       | 0.04                      | 0.04                              | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | Y                                                                | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y                  | 0.03                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Of which: enabling                                                                                        |         | 0.00             | 0.00                      | 0.00                              | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | Y                                                                | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y                  | 0.00                                                                                                   | E                              |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Of which: transitional                                                                                    |         | 739,171.52       | 100                       | 100                               |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    | Y                                                                | Y                         | Y     | Y         | Y                | Y            | Y                  | 100                                                                                                    |                                | T                            |
|                                                                                                                           | A.2 Activities eligible under the taxonomy but not environmentally sustainable (non-taxonomic activities) |         |                  |                           |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles                                               | MCC 6.5 | 265,953,911.64   | 14.29                     | EL                                | N/EL                      | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 14.80                                                                                                  |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Freight transport services by road                                                                        | MCC 6.6 | 874,292,069.74   | 46.98                     | EL                                | N/EL                      | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 44.40                                                                                                  |                                |                              |
| Turnover from activities eligible under the taxonomy but not environmentally sustainable (non-taxonomic activities) (A.2) |                                                                                                           |         | 1,140,245,981.39 | 61.27                     | 61.27                             | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 59.20                                                                                                  |                                |                              |
| A. Turnover from activities eligible according to the taxonomy (A.1+A.2)                                                  |                                                                                                           |         | 1,140,985,152.90 | 61.31                     | 61.31                             | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 59.23                                                                                                  |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | B. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                      |         |                  |                           |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | Turnover from non-eligible activities according to the taxonomy                                           |         | 719,922,626.74   | 38.69                     |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |
|                                                                                                                           | TOTAL                                                                                                     |         | 1,860,907,779.64 | 100                       |                                   |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                        |                                |                              |

## Page 331

| Proportion of turnover/total<br>turnover             |                                                      |        |
|------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| which<br>conforms to<br>the taxonomy<br>by objective | eligible<br>according to<br>taxonomy by<br>objective |        |
| CCM                                                  | 0.04%                                                | 61.31% |
| CCA                                                  | 0.00%                                                | 0.00%  |
| WTR                                                  | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%  |
| CE                                                   | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%  |
| PPC                                                  | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%  |
| BIO                                                  | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%  |

## Page 332

| Financial year 2023                                                                                                           |         |                |                        |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    | No significant harm criteria ("Does not cause significant harm") |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------------|------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------|-----------|------------------|--------------|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                                           | Codes   | Capex          | Capex ratio, year 2023 | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water              | Pollution          | Circular economy   | Biodiversity       | Climate change mitigation                                        | Climate change adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity | Minimum guarantees | Proportion of Capex conforming to taxonomy (A.1) or eligible under taxonomy (A.2), year 2022 | Category facilitating activity | Category transition activity |
| Text                                                                                                                          |         | €              | %                      | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c)        | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c)        | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y; N; N/EL (b) (c) | Y/N                                                              | Y/N                       | Y/N   | Y/N       | Y/N              | Y/N          | Y/N                | %                                                                                            | E                              | T                            |
| A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                                              |         |                |                        |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomic)                                                                        |         |                |                        |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| Capex from environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomic) (A.1)                                                           |         | 0.00           | 0.00                   | 0.00                      | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 0.00                                                                                         |                                |                              |
| Of which: enabling                                                                                                            |         | 0.00           | 0.00                   | 0.00                      | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 0.00                                                                                         | E                              |                              |
| Of which: transitional                                                                                                        |         | 0.00           | 0.00                   | 0.00                      |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 0.00                                                                                         |                                | T                            |
| A.2 Activities eligible under the taxonomy but not environmentally sustainable (non-taxonomic activities)                     |         |                |                        |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles                                                                   | MCC 6.5 | 3,257,055.34   | 3.07                   | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 2.70                                                                                         |                                |                              |
| Freight transport services by road                                                                                            | MCC 6.6 | 10,677,508.47  | 10.07                  | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               | N/EL               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 7.90                                                                                         |                                |                              |
| Capex from activities eligible according to the taxonomy but not environmentally sustainable (non-taxonomic activities) (A.2) |         | 13,934,563.80  | 13.15                  | 13.15                     | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 10.60                                                                                        |                                |                              |
| A. Capex of eligible activities according to taxonomy (A.1+A.2)                                                               |         | 13,934,563.80  | 13.15                  | 13.15                     | 0.00                      | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               | 0.00               |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 10.60                                                                                        |                                |                              |
| B. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                                          |         |                |                        |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| CapEx of non-eligible activities according to the taxonomy                                                                    |         | 92,051,085.42  | 86.85                  |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| TOTAL                                                                                                                         |         | 105,985,649.23 | 100                    |                           |                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |                                                                  |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                              |                                |                              |

## Page 333

#### **Capex/Total Capex ratio**

|     | which<br>conforms to<br>the taxonomy<br>by objective | eligible<br>according to<br>taxonomy by<br>objective |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| CCM | 0.00%                                                | 13.15%                                               |
| CCA | 0.00%                                                | 0.00%                                                |
| WTR | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| CE  | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| PPC | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| BIO | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |

## Page 334

Image /page/333/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe-like icon on the left and the words "PROSEGUR" and "CASH" on the right. The word "PROSEGUR" is on top and the word "CASH" is on the bottom.

| Financial year 2023                                                                                                      |         | Year           |                       |                           |                           |                          |                          | Substantial contribution criteria | No significant harm criteria ("Does not<br>cause significant harm") |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------------|-----------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|-------|-----------|------------------|--------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                                      | Codes   | Opex           | Opex share, year 2023 | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water                    | Pollution                | Circular economy                  | Biodiversity                                                        | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity | Minimum guarantees | Proportion of Opex conforming to taxonomy<br>(A.1) or eligible under taxonomy (A.2), year<br>2022 | Category facilitating activity | Category transition activity |
| Text                                                                                                                     |         | €              | %                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c)  | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c)  | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c) | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c) | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c)          | Y; N;<br>N/EL<br>(b) (c)                                            | Y/N                       | Y/N                       | Y/N   | Y/N       | Y/N              | Y/N          | Y/N                | %                                                                                                 | E                              | T                            |
| A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                                         |         |                |                       |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomic)                                                                   |         |                |                       |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| Opex from environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomic) (A.1)                                                       |         | 0.00           | 0.00                  | 0.00                      | 0.00                      | 0.00                     | 0.00                     | 0.00                              | 0.00                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| Of which: enabling                                                                                                       |         | 0.00           | 0.00                  | 0.00                      | 0.00                      | 0.00                     | 0.00                     | 0.00                              | 0.00                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   | E                              |                              |
| Of which: transitional                                                                                                   |         | 0.00           | 0.00                  |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                | T                            |
| A.2 Activities eligible under the taxonomy but not environmentally sustainable<br>(non-taxonomic activities)             |         |                |                       |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| Transport by motorcycle, cars and light commercial vehicles                                                              | MCC 6.5 | 1,418,154.71   | 1.24                  | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL                     | N/EL                     | N/EL                              | N/EL                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 1.30                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| Freight transport services by road                                                                                       | MCC 6.6 | 4,649,094.77   | 4.07                  | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL                     | N/EL                     | N/EL                              | N/EL                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 3.80                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| Opex from activities eligible under the taxonomy but not environmentally<br>sustainable (non-taxonomic activities) (A.2) |         | 6,067,249.48   | 5.32                  | 5.32                      | 0.00                      | 0.00                     | 0.00                     | 0.00                              | 0.00                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 5.00                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| A. Opex of eligible activities according to taxonomy (A.1+A.2)                                                           |         | 6,067,249.48   | 5.32                  | 5.32                      | 0.00                      | 0.00                     | 0.00                     | 0.00                              | 0.00                                                                |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    | 5.00                                                                                              |                                |                              |
| B. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES ACCORDING TO THE TAXONOMY                                                                     |         |                |                       |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| Opex from non-eligible activities according to the taxonomy                                                              |         | 108,025,972.90 | 94.68                 |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |
| TOTAL                                                                                                                    |         | 114,093,222.38 | 100                   |                           |                           |                          |                          |                                   |                                                                     |                           |                           |       |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                                                   |                                |                              |

## Page 335

**Ratio of Opex/Total Opex**

|     | which<br>conforms to<br>the taxonomy<br>by objective | eligible<br>according to<br>taxonomy by<br>objective |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| CCM | 0.00%                                                | 5.32%                                                |
| CCA | 0.00%                                                | 0.00%                                                |
| WTR | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| CE  | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| PPC | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |
| BIO | 0.00%*                                               | 0.00%                                                |

## Page 336

<span id="page-335-0"></span>Image /page/335/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. To the left of the text is a circular icon that resembles a globe with lines running horizontally and vertically. To the right of the icon is the word "PROSEGUR" in bold, uppercase letters. Below that is the word "CASH" in bold, uppercase letters.

# **8.1.3. Social and employment matters**

GRI 102-41, 202-2, 401-1, 401-3, 403-5, 403-9, 401-1, 404-3, 412-2

#### **Detail of employee indicators, professional development, and occupational health and safety by country (Europe) – 2023**

|                                            |                                                        |             | Cash         | Spain       | Portugal    | Germany     | France    | UK        | Austria   | Finland   | Denmark   | Sweden    |  |
|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------|--------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|--|
| Total no. of employees                     |                                                        | 2023        | 45,102       | 2,534       | 599         | 4,358       | 77        | 377       | 12        | 17        | 9         | 125       |  |
| Summary of total no. of employees          |                                                        | % of women  | 24.7%        |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 33,956       | 1,878       | 538         | 3,601       | 31        | 192       | 5         | 8         | 3         | 43        |  |
| Gender                                     | Women                                                  |             | 11,146       | 656         | 61          | 757         | 46        | 185       | 7         | 9         | 6         | 82        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 8,329        | 150         | 37          | 390         | 28        | 126       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 58        |  |
| Age                                        | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 27,164       | 976         | 341         | 2,101       | 40        | 177       | 5         | 17        | 7         | 63        |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 9,609        | 1,408       | 221         | 1,867       | 9         | 74        | 5         | 0         | 1         | 4         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,629        | 52          | 16          | 70          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,896        | 269         | 27          | 87          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 39,228       | 2,160       | 552         | 4,185       | 69        | 318       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 117       |  |
| Number of employees per types of contracts |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 33,956       | 1,878       | 538         | 3,601       | 31        | 192       | 5         | 8         | 3         | 43        |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    | Indefinite  | 31,900       | 1,798       | 442         | 3,017       | 31        | 185       | 5         | 8         | 3         | 33        |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    | Temporary   | 2,056        | 80          | 96          | 584         | 0         | 7         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 10        |  |
| Gender                                     | Women                                                  |             | 11,146       | 656         | 61          | 757         | 46        | 185       | 7         | 9         | 6         | 82        |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  | Indefinite  | 10,557       | 631         | 47          | 628         | 46        | 183       | 7         | 9         | 6         | 50        |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  | Temporary   | 589          | 25          | 14          | 129         | 0         | 2         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 32        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 8,329        | 150         | 37          | 390         | 28        | 126       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 58        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     | Indefinite  | 6,965        | 124         | 1           | 160         | 28        | 124       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 28        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     | Temporary   | 1,364        | 26          | 36          | 230         | 0         | 2         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 30        |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 27,164       | 976         | 341         | 2,101       | 40        | 177       | 5         | 17        | 7         | 63        |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         | Indefinite  | 26,051       | 911         | 270         | 1,737       | 40        | 174       | 5         | 17        | 7         | 52        |  |
| Age                                        | 30 to 50 years                                         | Temporary   | 1,113        | 65          | 71          | 364         | 0         | 3         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 11        |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 9,609        | 1,408       | 221         | 1,867       | 9         | 74        | 5         | 0         | 1         | 4         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     | Indefinite  | 9,440        | 1,394       | 218         | 1,748       | 9         | 69        | 5         | 0         | 1         | 3         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     | Temporary   | 169          | 14          | 3           | 119         | 0         | 5         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Indefinite  | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Temporary   | 0            | 0           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,629        | 52          | 16          | 70          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Indefinite  | 1,605        | 52          | 16          | 69          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Temporary   | 24           | 0           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,896        | 269         | 27          | 87          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Indefinite  | 3,664        | 264         | 27          | 86          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Temporary   | 232          | 5           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 39,228       | 2,160       | 552         | 4,185       | 69        | 318       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 117       |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Indefinite  | 36,848       | 2,060       | 442         | 3,475       | 69        | 312       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 77        |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Temporary   | 2,380        | 100         | 110         | 710         | 0         | 6         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 40        |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | Cash         | Spain       | Portugal    | Germany     | France    | UK        | Austria   | Finland   | Denmark   | Sweden    |  |
|                                            | Number of employees per types of Working Day           |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 33,956       | 1,878       | 538         | 3,601       | 31        | 192       | 5         | 8         | 3         | 43        |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    | Full time   | 32,798       | 1,791       | 527         | 3,215       | 31        | 172       | 5         | 8         | 3         | 30        |  |
| Gender                                     | Men                                                    | Part time   | 1,158        | 87          | 11          | 386         | 0         | 20        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 13        |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  |             | 11,146       | 656         | 61          | 757         | 46        | 185       | 7         | 9         | 6         | 82        |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  | Full time   | 9,811        | 616         | 59          | 553         | 46        | 151       | 4         | 9         | 5         | 59        |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  | Part time   | 1,335        | 40          | 2           | 204         | 0         | 34        | 3         | 0         | 1         | 23        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 8,331        | 150         | 37          | 390         | 28        | 126       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 58        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     | Full time   | 7,361        | 142         | 35          | 337         | 28        | 114       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 31        |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     | Part time   | 970          | 8           | 2           | 53          | 0         | 12        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 27        |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 27,162       | 976         | 341         | 2,101       | 40        | 177       | 5         | 17        | 7         | 63        |  |
| Age                                        | 30 to 50 years                                         | Full time   | 26,079       | 940         | 331         | 1,871       | 40        | 154       | 5         | 17        | 6         | 55        |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         | Part time   | 1,083        | 36          | 10          | 230         | 0         | 23        | 0         | 0         | 1         | 8         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 9,609        | 1,408       | 221         | 1,867       | 9         | 74        | 5         | 0         | 1         | 4         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     | Full time   | 9,170        | 1,325       | 220         | 1,560       | 9         | 55        | 2         | 0         | 1         | 3         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     | Part time   | 439          | 83          | 1           | 307         | 0         | 19        | 3         | 0         | 0         | 1         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Full time   | 348          | 52          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Part time   | 1            | 1           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,629        | 52          | 16          | 70          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Full time   | 1,620        | 49          | 16          | 64          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Part time   | 9            | 3           | 0           | 6           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,896        | 269         | 27          | 87          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Full time   | 3,661        | 264         | 27          | 74          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Part time   | 235          | 5           | 0           | 13          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 39,228       | 2,160       | 552         | 4,185       | 69        | 318       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 117       |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Full time   | 37,060       | 2,043       | 539         | 3,616       | 69        | 312       | 7         | 14        | 6         | 76        |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Part time   | 2,168        | 117         | 13          | 569         | 0         | 6         | 2         | 0         | 1         | 41        |  |
| Employee type                              | Average number of employees per year                   |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 42,634       | 2,315       | 577         | 4,162       | 92        | 471       | 11        | 14        | 10        | 143       |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Men         | 32,608       | 1,732       | 518         | 3,454       | 37        | 234       | 5         | 7         | 4         | 48        |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Women       | 10,026       | 582         | 59          | 708         | 55        | 237       | 6         | 7         | 6         | 95        |  |
|                                            | Indirect                                               |             | 2,956        | 335         | 17          | 175         | 8         | 63        | 3         | 3         | 2         | 8         |  |
|                                            | Indirect                                               | Men         | 1,767        | 214         | 14          | 130         | 3         | 39        | 2         | 1         | 1         | 6         |  |
|                                            | Indirect                                               | Women       | 1,190        | 122         | 3           | 46          | 5         | 24        | 1         | 2         | 1         | 2         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | Cash         | Spain       | Portugal    | Germany     | France    | UK        | Austria   | Finland   | Denmark   | Sweden    |  |
| Yearly contract average                    |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 33,235       | 1,946       | 532         | 3,706       | 40        | 273       | 7         | 8         | 4         | 6         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 30,042       | 1,747       | 446         | 2,713       | 40        | 243       | 7         | 8         | 4         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 944          | 105         | 2           | 287         | 0         | 22        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 2,024        | 89          | 83          | 624         | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 225          | 5           | 1           | 82          | 0         | 7         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         |  |
| Gender                                     | Women                                                  |             | 10,834       | 705         | 62          | 772         | 60        | 266       | 7         | 9         | 7         | 11        |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 8,953        | 619         | 48          | 467         | 60        | 214       | 4         | 9         | 5         | 6         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 1,180        | 47          | 1           | 174         | 0         | 52        | 3         | 0         | 1         | 4         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 470          | 37          | 12          | 98          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 231          | 2           | 1           | 33          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 3         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 8,136        | 188         | 31          | 405         | 40        | 204       | 2         | 0         | 2         | 8         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 6,122        | 146         | 0           | 234         | 40        | 183       | 2         | 0         | 2         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 730          | 9           | 1           | 34          | 0         | 19        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 982          | 31          | 29          | 115         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 302          | 2           | 0           | 22          | 0         | 2         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 26,711       | 1,039       | 343         | 2,122       | 49        | 242       | 7         | 17        | 8         | 8         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 24,590       | 910         | 274         | 1,669       | 49        | 211       | 7         | 17        | 6         | 5         |  |
| Age                                        | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 986          | 55          | 2           | 169         | 0         | 29        | 0         | 0         | 1         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 1,068        | 71          | 65          | 257         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 6         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 66           | 3           | 2           | 28          | 0         | 2         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 2         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 9,218        | 1,424       | 221         | 1,952       | 11        | 88        | 5         | 0         | 1         | 7         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 8,557        | 1,310       | 219         | 1,544       | 11        | 65        | 2         | 0         | 1         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 369          | 88          | 0           | 231         | 0         | 19        | 3         | 0         | 0         | 4         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 225          | 24          | 1           | 117         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 67           | 2           | 0           | 61          | 0         | 4         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 350          | 55          | 3           | 18          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 348          | 53          | 3           | 18          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 2            | 2           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 0            | 0           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 0            | 0           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,580        | 53          | 16          | 78          | 1         | 0         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 1,536        | 48          | 16          | 71          | 1         | 0         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 10           | 5           | 0           | 5           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 34           | 0           | 0           | 2           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 1            | 0           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,649        | 309         | 11          | 82          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 3,217        | 270         | 11          | 67          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 115          | 35          | 0           | 13          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 95           | 4           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 222          | 0           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 38,465       | 2,233       | 564         | 4,302       | 92        | 464       | 11        | 14        | 10        | 16        |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Full        | 33,814       | 1,995       | 464         | 2,915       | 92        | 402       | 9         | 14        | 8         | 8         |  |
|                                            | Indefinite                                             | Partial     | 2,058        | 109         | 3           | 537         | 0         | 62        | 2         | 0         | 1         | 1         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Full        | 2,325        | 122         | 95          | 690         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         |  |
|                                            | Temporary                                              | Partial     | 268          | 7           | 2           | 161         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 6         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | Cash         | Spain       | Portugal    | Germany     | France    | UK        | Austria   | Finland   | Denmark   | Sweden    |  |
|                                            | Number of dismissals (contract terminations)           |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 1,733        | 50          | 6           | 179         | 2         | 26        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
| Gender                                     | Women                                                  |             | 867          | 31          | 0           | 62          | 1         | 15        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 1,171        | 17          | 0           | 89          | 3         | 25        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
| Age                                        | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 1,211        | 45          | 6           | 113         | 0         | 12        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 218          | 19          | 0           | 39          | 0         | 4         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 13           | 2           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 81           | 1           | 0           | 2           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 866          | 9           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 1,640        | 69          | 6           | 238         | 3         | 40        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Number of recruits                                     |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Men                                                    |             | 7,157        | 1,029       | 52          | 478         | 16        | 166       | 2         | 2         | 1         | 1         |  |
| Gender                                     | Women                                                  |             | 4,188        | 457         | 4           | 145         | 25        | 141       | 0         | 2         | 3         | 3         |  |
| Age                                        | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 5,346        | 351         | 28          | 211         | 26        | 148       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 1         |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 5,333        | 849         | 26          | 307         | 12        | 114       | 0         | 4         | 3         | 3         |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 666          | 286         | 2           | 105         | 3         | 45        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 26           | 3           | 0           | 2           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 163          | 2           | 0           | 8           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 849          | 34          | 0           | 23          | 2         | 17        | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 10,307       | 1,447       | 56          | 590         | 39        | 290       | 2         | 4         | 4         | 4         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Breakdown of employees by professional category        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Men         | 298          | 44          | 4           | 15          | 1         | 11        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Women       | 51           | 9           | 0           | 1           | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,629        | 52          | 16          | 70          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 2         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Men         | 1,215        | 38          | 15          | 56          | 1         | 8         | 1         | 0         | 1         | 1         |  |
| Professional                               | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Women       | 414          | 14          | 1           | 14          | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 1         |  |
| category                                   | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,896        | 269         | 27          | 87          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Men         | 2,196        | 157         | 18          | 53          | 1         | 25        | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Women       | 1,700        | 112         | 9           | 34          | 5         | 13        | 0         | 2         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 39,228       | 2,160       | 552         | 4,185       | 69        | 318       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 7         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Men         | 30,319       | 1,639       | 501         | 3,477       | 28        | 148       | 2         | 7         | 2         | 2         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Women       | 8,909        | 521         | 51          | 708         | 41        | 170       | 7         | 7         | 5         | 5         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | Cash         | Spain       | Portugal    | Germany     | France    | UK        | Austria   | Finland   | Denmark   | Sweden    |  |
|                                            | Breakdown of employees by professional category        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 349          | 53          | 4           | 16          | 1         | 12        | 2         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | < 30 years  | 1            | 0           | 0           | 0           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | 30-50 years | 203          | 23          | 0           | 9           | 1         | 12        | 1         | 0         | 0         | 3         |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | > 50 years  | 145          | 30          | 4           | 7           | 0         | 0         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 1,619        | 52          | 16          | 70          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | < 30 years  | 103          | 1           | 0           | 3           | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | 30-50 years | 1,155        | 27          | 5           | 41          | 1         | 9         | 1         | 0         | 2         | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | > 50 years  | 361          | 24          | 11          | 26          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 3,906        | 269         | 27          | 87          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | < 30 years  | 845          | 13          | 0           | 17          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | 30-50 years | 2,435        | 137         | 15          | 40          | 6         | 38        | 0         | 3         | 0         | 5         |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | > 50 years  | 626          | 119         | 12          | 30          | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 39,228       | 2,160       | 552         | 4,185       | 69        | 318       | 9         | 14        | 7         | 117       |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | < 30 years  | 7,386        | 136         | 37          | 377         | 28        | 126       | 2         | 0         | 1         | 58        |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | 30-50 years | 23,374       | 789         | 321         | 2,012       | 32        | 118       | 3         | 14        | 5         | 55        |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | > 50 years  | 8,468        | 1,235       | 194         | 1,796       | 9         | 74        | 4         | 0         | 1         | 4         |  |
|                                            | Number of employees with disabilities                  |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
| Number of persons with disabilities        |                                                        | Total       | 572          | 48          | 5           | 321         | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        | Men         | 439          | 20          | 4           | 268         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 1         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        | Women       | 133          | 28          | 1           | 53          | 1         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | 1.3%         | 1.9%        | 0.8%        | 7.4%        | 1.3%      | 0.0%      | 0.0%      | 0.0%      | 11.1%     | 0.0%      |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
| Number of immigrant employees              |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             | 1,313        | 142         | 4           | 750         | 35        | 193       | 10        | 13        | 8         | 0         |  |
|                                            |                                                        | 2.9%        | 5.6%         | 0.7%        | 17.2%       | 45.5%       | 51.2%     | 83.3%     | 76.5%     | 88.9%     | 0.0%      |           |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            | Number of executives from the local community          |             | 303<br>86.8% | 50<br>94.3% | 4<br>100.0% | 13<br>81.3% | 0<br>0.0% | 0<br>0.0% | 0<br>0.0% | 0<br>0.0% | 0<br>0.0% | 0<br>0.0% |  |
|                                            | Percentage of senior managers from the local community |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
| Average pay in Euro                        |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
| Gender                                     | Men                                                    |             | 16,110       | 31,345      | 17,638      | 39,523      | 28,030    | 25,860    | 65,435    | 31,504    | 41,915    | 27,511    |  |
|                                            | Women                                                  |             | 10,851       | 22,823      | 14,617      | 32,990      | 28,177    | 23,860    | 33,081    | 32,055    | 39,585    | 20,537    |  |
|                                            |                                                        |             |              |             |             |             |           |           |           |           |           |           |  |
| Age                                        | Less than 30 years                                     |             | 7,745        | 19,695      | 14,620      | 31,930      | 16,982    | 14,973    | 19,712    | 0         | 40,430    | 15,620    |  |
|                                            | 30 to 50 years                                         |             | 14,334       | 26,663      | 17,427      | 38,900      | 30,241    | 29,142    | 51,391    | 31,512    | 40,179    | 30,528    |  |
|                                            | More than 50 years                                     |             | 22,327       | 31,787      | 17,747      | 38,922      | 33,815    | 27,532    | 34,000    | 0         | 43,246    | 47,765    |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                |             | 76,396       | 95,376      | 71,636      | 122,631     | 161,975   | 119,115   | 105,708   | 0         | 0         | 87,349    |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Men         | 77,960       | 101,913     | 71,636      | 121,759     | 161,975   | 113,268   | 105,708   | 0         | 0         | 87,349    |  |
|                                            | Executives and Managers                                | Women       | 78,469       | 87,624      | 0           | 131,183     | 0         | 146,113   | 0         | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    |             | 23,866       | 53,754      | 31,219      | 65,138      | 82,850    | 69,210    | 63,799    | 0         | 60,530    | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Men         | 24,929       | 53,816      | 33,460      | 68,615      | 82,850    | 68,679    | 63,799    | 0         | 0         | 0         |  |
|                                            | Heads, supervisors and coordinators                    | Women       | 20,531       | 45,234      | 28,643      | 59,975      | 0         | 75,703    | 0         | 0         | 60,530    | 0         |  |
| Professional<br>category                   | Analysts and office clerks                             |             | 15,943       | 30,762      | 22,654      | 39,628      | 46,989    | 46,025    | 0         | 50,732    | 0         | 59,649    |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Men         | 17,410       | 33,151      | 23,391      | 43,683      | 52,255    | 45,850    | 0         | 54,947    | 0         | 59,649    |  |
|                                            | Analysts and office clerks                             | Women       | 13,217       | 29,302      | 18,461      | 33,469      | 45,042    | 46,025    | 0         | 46,025    | 0         | 59,560    |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            |             | 14,476       | 29,289      | 17,315      | 38,225      | 27,302    | 21,351    | 32,679    | 31,285    | 40,179    | 20,581    |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Men         | 15,806       | 30,907      | 17,544      | 39,339      | 27,355    | 21,272    | 19,712    | 31,496    | 41,915    | 22,606    |  |
|                                            | Operational                                            | Women       | 10,575       | 21,852      | 14,559      | 32,627      | 27,302    | 21,439    | 33,081    | 29,622    | 34,867    | 19,952    |  |

## Page 337

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 338

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 399

# <span id="page-398-0"></span>**8.1.4. Anti-corruption and bribery matters**

| KPIs                                                                                                | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|------|------|
| No. of complaints for breaches of the Code of Ethics (Unethical<br>conduct or conflict of interest) | 6    | 9    | 8    |
| Number of complaints for theft, embezzlement or fraud, and bribery<br>and corruption                | 10   | 6    | 8    |

A. The scope of these KPIs covers 100%. This excludes the scope of the new M&A acquisitions in 2020, disinvestments and the countries in which business are equity-accounted.

## Page 400

# <span id="page-399-0"></span>**8.2. REQUIREMENTS OF THE NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT**

Index of the contents required by Spanish Act 11/2018, of 28 December and the Taxonomy regulation.

|                                                         | Content                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Rough connection with<br>GRI indicators (reporting<br>framework)                                                                                                         | Pages     |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
|                                                         | General information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Brief description of the business model that includes its<br>business environment, its organisation and structure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | GRI 102-2 GRI 102-7                                                                                                                                                      | 158 / 290 |
| -                                                       | Markets in which it operates.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 102-3 GRI 102-4<br>GRI 102-6                                                                                                                                         | 158       |
| -                                                       | Organisation objectives and strategies.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | GRI 102-14                                                                                                                                                               | 162       |
| -                                                       | Main factors and tendencies that affect its future evolution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 102-14 GRI 102-15                                                                                                                                                    | 171       |
| -                                                       | Reporting Framework utilised.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 102-54                                                                                                                                                               | 151       |
| -                                                       | Materiality principle.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | GRI 102-46 GRI 102-47                                                                                                                                                    | 223       |
|                                                         | Corporate matters and those relative to the staff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Management approach: description and results of policies<br>relative to these issues, as well as the main risks relating to<br>these issues associated with the activities of the Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 102-15 GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                     | 247       |
|                                                         | Employment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Number and distribution of employees by country, gender,<br>age and professional category.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | GRI 102-8 GRI 405-1                                                                                                                                                      | 328       |
| -                                                       | Number and distribution of types of employment contracts,<br>and the yearly average of open-ended, temporary and part<br>time contracts by gender, age and professional category.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | GRI 102-8                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
| -                                                       | Number of laid-off employees by gender, age and<br>professional category.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
| -                                                       | Average remuneration and its evolution broken down by<br>gender, age and professional category or similar value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | GRI 405-2                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
| -                                                       | Wage gap, remuneration for equivalent jobs or on average<br>for the Company.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | GRI 405-2                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
| -                                                       | Average remuneration of directors and managers, including<br>variable remuneration, per diems, compensation, the<br>payment into long-term savings systems and any other<br>earning broken down by gender.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | GRI 405-2                                                                                                                                                                | 251       |
| -                                                       | Implementation of labour disconnection measures.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 260       |
| -                                                       | Number of employees with disabilities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | GRI 405-1                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
|                                                         | Work Organisation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Organisation of working time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 247       |
| -                                                       | Number of hours of absenteeism.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | GRI 403-9                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
| -                                                       | Measures aimed at facilitating the benefits of reconciliation<br>and promoting the co-responsible exercise of these by both<br>parents.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | GRI 401-3                                                                                                                                                                | 253       |
|                                                         | Health and safety                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Health and safety conditions in the workplace.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | GRI 403-1 GRI 403-2 GRI<br>403-3 GRI 403-7                                                                                                                               | 260       |
| -                                                       | Occupational accidents, specifically their frequency and<br>gravity, as well as occupational illnesses, broken down by<br>gender.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | GRI 403-9 GRI 403-10                                                                                                                                                     | 328       |
|                                                         | Social relations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Organisation of social dialogue including procedures for<br>informing and consulting staff and negotiating with them.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 253       |
| -                                                       | Percentage of employees covered by the collective<br>agreement by country.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | GRI 102-41                                                                                                                                                               | 328       |
| -                                                       | Result of bargaining agreements, particularly in the field of<br>occupational health and safety.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | GRI 403-4                                                                                                                                                                | 253       |
| -                                                       | Mechanisms and procedures that the company has to<br>promote employees' involvement in the management of<br>the company, in terms of information, consultation and<br>participation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | GRI 102-43                                                                                                                                                               | 253       |
|                                                         | Training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Policies implemented in the training field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | GRI 103-2 GRI 404-2                                                                                                                                                      | 249       |
| -                                                       | Total number of training hours by professional category.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 404-1                                                                                                                                                                | 328       |
|                                                         | Universal integration and accessibility of individuals with<br>disabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Measures adopted to promote equal treatment and<br>opportunities between men and women.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 264       |
| -                                                       | Equality plans, measures adopted to promote employment,<br>protocols against sexual and gender-based harassment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 264       |
| -                                                       | Policy against all types of discrimination and, where<br>appropriate, diversity management.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 264       |
|                                                         | Environmental issues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Management approach: description and results of policies<br>relative to these issues, as well as the main risks relating to<br>these issues associated with the activities of the Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 102-15 GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                     | 228       |
|                                                         | Detailed general information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Detailed information on the current and foreseeable effects<br>of Company activities on the environment and, where<br>appropriate, on health and safety.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 102-15                                                                                                                                                               | 228       |
| -                                                       | Environmental evaluation or certification procedures.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Resources devoted to environmental risk protection.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Application of the Precautionary Principle.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | GRI 102-11                                                                                                                                                               | 228       |
| -                                                       | Quantity of provisions and guarantees for environmental<br>risks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Measures to prevent, decrease or remedy emissions that<br>seriously affect the environment, considering any form of<br>atmospheric pollution specific to an activity, including noise<br>and light pollution.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 103-2 GRI 305-7                                                                                                                                                      | 228       |
|                                                         | Circular Economy and waste prevention and management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Measures for prevention, recycling, re-utilisation, other<br>forms of recovery and elimination of waste.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 103-2 GRI 306-1 GRI<br>306-2                                                                                                                                         | 228       |
| -                                                       | Actions to fight the waste of food.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 151       |
|                                                         | Sustainable use of resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Consumption and supply of water in accordance with local<br>restrictions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 303-5                                                                                                                                                                | 306       |
| -                                                       | Consumption of raw materials and measures adopted to<br>improve the efficiency of use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | GRI 301-1                                                                                                                                                                | 306       |
| -                                                       | Direct and indirect energy consumption.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | GRI 302-1                                                                                                                                                                | 306       |
| -                                                       | Measures to improve energy efficiency.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | GRI 302-4                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Use of renewable energies.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | GRI 302-1                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
|                                                         | Climate change                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Greenhouse Gas Emissions generated as a result of<br>Company activities, including the use of the goods and<br>services it produces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | GRI 305-1 GRI 305-2                                                                                                                                                      | 306       |
| -                                                       | Measures adopted for adaptation to the consequences of<br>climate change.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 201-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Reduction targets established voluntarily for the medium<br>and long term to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the<br>measures implemented for this purpose.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | GRI 305-5                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
|                                                         | Biodiversity protection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
| -                                                       | Impacts caused by activities or operations in protected<br>areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 228       |
|                                                         | Respect for Human Rights                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
|                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Management approach: description and results of policies<br>relative to these issues, as well as the main risks relating to<br>these issues associated with the activities of the Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 102-15 GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                     | 257       |
| -                                                       | Application of due diligence procedures on human rights<br>and the prevention of the risks of the infringement of<br>human rights and, where appropriate, measures to<br>mitigate, manage and remedy possible abuses committed.                                                                                                                                                                                       | GRI 102-16 GRI 102-17 GRI<br>410-1 GRI 412-1 GRI 412-2                                                                                                                   | 257       |
| -                                                       | Reporting in cases of the infringement of human rights.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | GRI 103-2 GRI 406-1                                                                                                                                                      | 257       |
| -                                                       | Measures implemented for the promotion and compliance<br>with the provisions of the fundamental conventions of the<br>International Labour Organisation regarding the respect<br>for the freedom of association and the right to collective<br>bargaining, the abolition of discrimination in employment<br>and occupation, the abolition of forced obligatory labour<br>and the effective abolition of child labour. | GRI 103-2 GRI 407-1 GRI<br>408-1 GRI 409-1                                                                                                                               | 257       |
| -                                                       | Management approach: description and results of policies relative to these issues, as well as the main risks relating to these issues associated with the activities of the Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | GRI 102-15 GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                     | 292       |
| -                                                       | Measures adopted to prevent corruption and bribery.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2 GRI 102-16 GRI<br>102-17 GRI 205-2 GRI 205-3                                                                                                                   | 292       |
| -                                                       | Measures to combat money laundering.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | GRI 103-2 GRI 102-16 GRI<br>102-17 GRI 205-2 GRI 205-3                                                                                                                   | 292       |
| -                                                       | Contributions to foundations and not-for-profit entities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 102-13 GRI 201-1                                                                                                                                                     | 271       |
| General information on the Company                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Management approach: description and results of policies relative to these issues, as well as the main risks relating to these issues associated with the activities of the Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | GRI 102-15 GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                     | 208       |
| Commitments of the Company with sustainable development |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Impact of the Company activity on local employment and development.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2 GRI 204-1                                                                                                                                                      | 217       |
| -                                                       | The impact of the Company activity on local populations and the territory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | GRI 413-1 GRI 413-2                                                                                                                                                      | 217       |
| -                                                       | The relations with local players of local communications and types of dialogue with them.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 102-43 GRI 413-1                                                                                                                                                     | 217       |
| -                                                       | Association or sponsorship actions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 217       |
| Subcontracting and suppliers                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Inclusion in the procurement policy of social, gender equality and environmental issues.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 268       |
| -                                                       | Consideration of social and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 102-9                                                                                                                                                                | 268       |
| -                                                       | Supervision and audits and their results.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | GRI 102-9 GRI 308-2 GRI<br>414-2                                                                                                                                         | 268       |
| Consumers                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | Measures for consumer health and safety.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 103-2                                                                                                                                                                | 270       |
| -                                                       | Systems for claims, complaints received and their resolution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | GRI 103-2 GRI 418-1                                                                                                                                                      | 270       |
|                                                         | Taking into account the difference between types of business (B2B and B2C) and the number of countries that make up the Prosegur Cash Group, in 2023 quantitative information on claims and complaints received and their resolution is not consolidated. Future work will be done to develop timely reporting mechanisms.                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| Tax information                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                          |           |
| -                                                       | The profits obtained country by country.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | GRI 207-4                                                                                                                                                                | 302       |
| -                                                       | Income tax paid.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | GRI 207-4                                                                                                                                                                | 302       |
| -                                                       | Proportion of the turnover (Net Turnover Amount)<br>from products or services related to economic activities<br>considered environmentally sustainable in accordance<br>with the Taxonomy Regulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | EU Taxonomy Article<br>8 delegated act on the<br>implementation of article<br>8 of the Taxonomy<br>Regulation, on Company<br>transparency in non<br>financial reporting. | 238       |
| -                                                       | Proportion of total fixed assets (CAPEX) in relation<br>to economic activities considered environmentally<br>sustainable in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | EU Taxonomy Article<br>8 delegated act on the<br>implementation of article<br>8 of the Taxonomy<br>Regulation, on Company<br>transparency in non<br>financial reporting. | 238       |
| -                                                       | Proportion of total operating expenses (OPEX) in relation<br>to assets or processes associated with economic activities<br>considered environmentally-sustainable in accordance<br>with the Taxonomy Regulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                      | EU Taxonomy Article<br>8 delegated act on the<br>implementation of article<br>8 of the Taxonomy<br>Regulation, on Company<br>transparency in non<br>financial reporting. | 238       |

## Page 401

Image /page/400/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. On the left is a circular icon with lines representing a globe. To the right of the icon are the words "PROSEGUR" in bold, with the word "CASH" in bold below it.

## Page 402

Image /page/401/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe with a line through it on the left, and the words "PROSEGUR" and "CASH" on the right. The word "PROSEGUR" is above the word "CASH".

#### **Pollution**

## Page 403

Image /page/402/Picture/0 description: The image shows the logo for PROSEGUR CASH. The logo consists of a globe-like icon on the left and the text "PROSEGUR" above the text "CASH" on the right. The globe icon is a circle with lines running horizontally and vertically across it, resembling a world map. The text is in a bold, sans-serif font.

#### **Anti-corruption and bribery**

- Public grants received. GRI 201-4 302
