## Page 126

A series of explanatory videos addresses content from the ISMS policies such as email fraud or proper visitor management. Beyond prevention measures, the videos also provide information on what to do in the event of security incidents to address those as quickly as possible and prevent damage. GEA uses trainings, phishing simulations and communication campaigns to inform and educate employees about the latest criminal methods and how they can best protect both themselves and GEA. In the year under review, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, the IT department, external IT service providers, sales managers, production employees and Local Information Security Officers (LISOs) also received in-depth trainings on security risks, secure practices and the secure use of physical and digital systems in the form of e-learning and in-person sessions. A global campaign to raise employee awareness was launched in 2023. This provides tips on secure practices and explains the techniques used by (cyber) criminals. In addition, the online Identity and Access Management (IAM) system "MyAccess" and the "Security Incident Reporting Portal" went live to better protect employees' digital identities, to simplify security incident reporting and to provide employees with expert support.

In the event of a security incident, information security investigations can be ordered by the Executive Board, the Chief Compliance Officer or the CISO. No complaints about breach of protection or loss of customer data were received by GEA in 2023.

Due to the increased security risks, especially related to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the overall number of cyberattacks again increased significantly. More and more government institutions, authorities and companies, therefore, require their suppliers – including GEA – to ensure adequate security and to demonstrate that they have market-specific certifications in addition to the ISO 27001 standard.

Other significant aspects of the Business Continuity Management are site-specific business impact analyses and business continuity plans in preparation for potential business interruptions, emergencies and crises. These site-specific measures are supplemented by a global Crisis Management Team, which is able to refer to predefined scenario-based playbooks should a crisis occur. The business continuity plans and crisis management playbooks undergo regular reviews, verification and practical exercises. The preventive measures enable GEA to respond appropriately to changing geopolitical risks and other unforeseeable events and – as far as possible – maintain the stability of GEA's business operations.

#### Internal Audit

Internal Audit reviews compliance aspects as part of its standard and special audits. Internal Audit is an independent control function in the three lines model of integrated corporate governance, risk and compliance. It audits and advises on behalf of the Executive Board and reports quarterly to the Executive Board, the extended management circle and the Audit and Cybersecurity Committee of the GEA Group Aktiengesellschaft Supervisory Board. It also maintains continuous communication with the divisions, regions and central functions of the group as well as with the group auditor. The independent and objective auditing and consulting services are aimed at creating added value and improving business processes. To this end, binding measures are agreed upon with the audited units and their timely implementation is monitored. Internal Audit supports GEA in achieving the corporate goals by using a systematic and targeted approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, controls, as well as management and monitoring processes. Its activities cover all of GEA's legal entities, business operations, functions and employees. In fulfilling its duties and responsibilities, Internal Audit has full audit rights and has full and unrestricted access to all operating and business facilities and all information and systems.

Internal Audit's tasks include protecting corporate assets, verifying process efficiency and compliance, as well as checking the completeness of documentation. This also includes compliance investigations, independent of and related to specific events, audits of export controls, sustainability, human rights, and all central functions of the group. In the reporting period, the Internal Procurement Department was audited. A total of 47 audits were carried out at GEA entities worldwide, some as remote audits. Of these, a total of 40 audits were completed by the end of December 2023 with the publication of a final report.

Further information on the topic of compliance and corporate governance can be found in the GEA Sustainability Report 2023.

## Page 127

# Disclosures on the European Union Taxonomy Regulation

#### Background and objectives of the Taxonomy Regulation

The European Union (EU) aims to be climate neutral by 2050. The purpose of the European Commission's Action Plan on Sustainable Finance is to promote investment in sustainable economic activities. Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (the "Taxonomy Regulation" or "Regulation") is an integral part of the Action Plan and a classification system that defines the economic activities that contribute to the achievement of the following six environmental objectives:

- (1) Climate change mitigation
- (2) Climate change adaptation
- (3) Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources
- (4) Transition to a circular economy
- (5) Pollution prevention and control
- (6) Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

The Taxonomy Regulation defines an economic activity as sustainable and therefore taxonomy-aligned if it

- contributes substantially to one or more of the six environmental objectives (**substantial contribution**),
- does not significantly harm any of the five further EU environmental objectives (**do no significant harm** or **DNSH**), and
- is carried out in compliance with the **minimum safeguards**.

Each economic activity is assessed on the basis of technical screening criteria. So far, these criteria have been published and put into law for the six environmental objectives.

An economic activity is considered taxonomy-eligible if it complies with the description of the activity provided. An economic activity is considered taxonomy-aligned if it complies with the technical screening criteria and it can be demonstrated that the economic activity does not violate minimum safeguards from a social perspective.

#### Comprehensive reporting for fiscal year 2023

Against the backdrop of the Taxonomy Regulation, GEA will report in full on the proportions of revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expense (OpEx) attributable to taxonomy-eligible and non-taxonomyeligible economic activities in fiscal year 2023. The proportions attributable to taxonomy-aligned and nontaxonomy-aligned economic activities will also be included.

In accordance with the legal requirements, GEA reports in 2023 on the taxonomy eligibility of all six environmental objectives (1) climate change mitigation, (2) climate change adaptation, (3) sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, (4) transition to a circular economy, (5) pollution prevention and control, and (6) protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. The reporting also explicitly includes the new economic activities in the environmental objectives (1) and (2). In 2023, taxonomy alignment was reported solely for the first two environmental objectives.

The following assessment and reporting are based on the following regulations and publications:

- Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 dated November 27, 2019
- Taxonomy Regulation (EU) 2020/852 dated June 18, 2020
- Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 dated June 2021
- Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 dated July 2021
- Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 dated March 9, 2022
- Final Report on Minimum Safeguards of the Platform on Sustainable Finance dated October 2022
- Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485 dated June 27, 2023
- Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 dated June 27, 2023

## Page 128

#### Assessment methodology

GEA is committed to playing its part in the fight against climate change and in achieving the EU's climate targets. Therefore, GEA has formed a dedicated project team comprising the Controlling, Accounting, Sustainability and Investor Relations departments, which is responsible for the structured, group-wide organization and implementation of the requirements of the Taxonomy Regulation, including the necessary reporting structures and control mechanisms. The project team reports regularly to the Chief Sustainability Officer as part of the extended management circle. The procedure was documented and established in a business process.

As part of a comprehensive top-down analysis, all of GEA's business activities were reviewed with regard to their compliance with the economic activity descriptions in environmental objectives (3), (4), (5) and (6). The newly identified activities in this top-down analysis were then discussed and verified on a bottom-up basis with Business Unit representatives and product managers. Additional activities were added where necessary. Compliance was determined for environmental objectives (3) and (4). Furthermore, the assessment of the taxonomy eligibility and alignment of the economic activities in environmental objectives (1) and (2) was reviewed. Additional activities in environmental objective (1) were identified and assessed based on the technical screening criteria as defined in the Taxonomy Regulation.

A **potential substantial contribution** for each taxonomy-eligible economic activity was still only checked individually at product level for environmental objectives (1) and (2). As part of the analysis, GEA continued to only identify economic activities that make a substantial contribution to climate change mitigation. Further information on economic activities can be found on the following pages.

The **DNSH criteria** are primarily based on legal requirements and regulations that apply in the EU and can be reviewed at the local level. Environmental requirements were discussed and assessed by the project team with local management or with central functions such as QHSE, Compliance and Risk Management. Individual criteria for assessing taxonomy alignment laid out in the Taxonomy Regulation were analyzed and assessed on a product-specific and site-specific basis. The DNSH-criteria related to the relevant appendices under the Regulation are met.

The Regulation requires a climate risk and vulnerability assessment to be performed for certain economic activities. In this context, the sites where taxonomy-relevant activities were identified were assessed with respect to the parameters and approach defined by the Regulation. New food projects in particular are frequently developed and manufactured jointly by several locations. In the year under review, following a riskbased approach, the sites that are essential for the success of the projects were assessed. The threshold applied is ten percent of the total project value. The climate risk assessment was able to rule out corresponding climate risks for all taxonomy-relevant sites. The project team ensures that the risk assessment required by the Regulation will be expanded in the future for any additional taxonomy-relevant sites.

Potential risks of water shortage and water quality impairment are identified and internally assessed with the help of the "Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas" as part of the annual, group-wide water stress analysis. Necessary measures were initiated.

The non-use of chemicals in the supply chain as defined in Appendix C of the Taxonomy Regulation is governed both by GEA's General Terms and Conditions and the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors. Furthermore, adherence to the above requirements is explicitly queried when new supplier contracts are entered into and as part of additional supplier audits. However, GEA cannot completely rule out the possible use and presence of chemicals under the Regulation, particularly in the case of purchased components. GEA considers the use of hazardous chemicals by upstream suppliers to be insignificant and harmless to the user in terms of quantity and concentration. Due to the technical properties of the chemicals, GEA has determined that there are no other suitable alternative materials or technologies available on the market that offer the same economical and technical contribution to the quality, safety and use of the product. The potential use of chemicals takes place exclusively under controlled conditions.

Within the scope of the assessment under the Natura 2000 network of protected areas and UNESCO World Heritage Sites, it could be excluded that taxonomy-relevant sites are located in or near biodiversity-sensitive areas. Furthermore, GEA was able to demonstrate certification in accordance with the international environmental management standard ISO 14001 for the majority of taxonomy-relevant sites, which is primarily aimed at environmental protection and environmental management.

## Page 129

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The evaluation of the availability and application of techniques that support the transition to a circular economy was carried out for all taxonomy-relevant products, provided that the criteria according to the regulation were applicable. GEA has techniques in place that support the transition to a circular economy, for example through the design for high durability, recyclability, easy disassembly and adaptability of products manufactured. These include products that GEA has awarded the TÜV-validated Add Better label.

The **minimum safeguards** relate in particular to the OECD Guidelines, the United Nations Guiding Principles, the ILO Core Labor Standards and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Compliance with these principles, standards and rights is implemented and monitored on the basis of a Group-wide management approach. The particular focus is on compliance with human and employee rights, the fight against bribery and corruption as well as facilitation of fair competition and appropriate taxation. GEA has developed guidelines, processes and systems through which potential risks and violations of minimum social standards can be identified and combated. GEA is continuously developing its regulatory framework for human rights and introduced a Human Rights Policy and mandatory Human Rights Training for all employees in the year under review. In addition, GEA performs site-specific risk assessments for its own locations to identify and combat human rights violations and breaches of minimum social standards.

In the context of the Supply Chain Act, GEA ensures that the implementation of the requirements of the minimum safeguards under the Taxonomy Regulation related to human rights are monitored. All suppliers are also required to comply with GEA's Human Rights Policy. GEA reserves the right to react appropriately to suppliers violating the Code of Conduct and to take appropriate measures, such as conducting audits or due diligence checks, training and continued education measures at suppliers, as well as temporary suspension and termination of the business relationship with suppliers.

For further information, please refer to the "Sustainable Solutions," "Compliance & Corporate Governance" and "Supply Chain" sections of this report.

Data is collected on a decentralized basis by the group companies. These collect relevant revenue, capital and operating expenditure for taxonomy-eligible activities and report them to Corporate Controlling in a predetermined format. The data is consolidated and key figures collated on a centralized basis.

#### Notes on GEA's underlying assumptions

The Taxonomy Regulation is only applicable to GEA's economic activities to a certain extent, since the production of technologies, plant and machinery for the manufacture of beverages, food and pharmaceutical products is not included as a specific economic activity in the Taxonomy Regulation. As a system and machinery manufacturer and supplier, GEA enables customers in the food and pharmaceutical industries in particular to make a sustainable contribution to the climate neutrality of the European economy through the use of new technologies and machines. This is reflected in GEA's corporate purpose, "engineering for a better world."

As a result, the economic activity "3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies" in environmental objective (1) is considered to be of great importance to GEA. In particular, it includes technologies aimed at significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions in other sectors of the economy – such as the already mentioned Add Better products. This product portfolio analysis classified economic activities as taxonomyeligible if they target and demonstrably achieve significant reductions in life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions compared to the best-performing alternative technology or solution available on the market.

There are some areas which are fairly open to interpretation in connection with economic activity "3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies." This section addresses the underlying assumptions and provides information about how GEA estimated the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.

The economic activity involves the manufacture of technologies which target and demonstrably achieve significant reductions in life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions compared to the best-performing alternative technology or solution available on the market. Greenhouse gas reductions should be determined using life cycle analyses based on standards set by the Regulation and verified by an independent third party. With reference to GEA's business model, GEA does not consider the life cycle analysis standards required by the Regulation to be appropriate in all business areas and for all technologies. The reasons for this vary, depending on the business area and technology. GEA focuses exclusively on the use phase in the life cycle analysis of certain machinery and equipment, as it is primarily the use phase of GEA's customer-specific machinery and equipment that has a significant impact on the greenhouse gas emissions of GEA's business activities. GEA developed a tool specifically to calculate the potential reductions offered by integrated solutions for production processes and utilities designed to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The calculation is based on the standard calculation defined by the Regulation. In accordance with the Regulation, these calculations were audited by an external independent consulting firm. Since the aforementioned technologies,

## Page 130

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

equipment and projects are customer-specific solutions, the methodology and accuracy of the assumptions and assessment parameters were reviewed in each case rather than the individual, quantifiable reductions pursuant to the Regulation. The audit confirmed that the calculation was accurate and appropriate.

GEA requires customer-specific information and data to perform life cycle analyses for pioneering technologies and equipment, with a particular focus on the food industry. Official analyses by scientifically recognized organizations were therefore used to calculate potential reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, GEA assumes that the calculations used to estimate the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are sufficiently reliable.

Other facilities (such as CO2 recovery systems in brewery plants) prevent the need for additional external purchases of CO2 and therefore inherently lead to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, no separate life cycle analysis is performed for these business activities. For materiality reasons, manufacturing of equipment for the production of hydrogen was not included in the reporting and not factored in when calculating the key performance indicators according to the Taxonomy Regulation.

In order to meet the formal requirements of the Taxonomy Regulation, GEA plans to reassess the feasibility of life cycle assessments for the products and technologies reported under 3.6. In order to create a sufficiently meaningful life cycle analysis, it must be determined with product managers which assumptions, estimates and other parameters can be assumed to be ideal. GEA plans to prepare life cycle analyses for all activities reported under 3.6. in the future and to have it validated externally. However, GEA continues to point out that even these life cycle analyses can only provide an indication of the reductions in life cycle greenhouse gas emissions and that the actual reductions would need to be calculated on a customer-specific and operationdependent basis.

Although the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is required to be substantial according to the Regulation, it does not specify any threshold. GEA assumes that any reduction will be based on technological advances rather than efficiency gains within the existing system. From GEA's point of view, a reduction of ten percent is considered substantial and therefore makes a significant contribution to climate change mitigation. However, each case must be considered on its own merits.

The reference standard – which involves taking the currently prevailing conditions on the market into account  – is also questionable. Reference technology is therefore the technology predominantly available on the market. The technology must be (directly) linked to reductions in emissions and demonstrated using the life cycle analyses above. For example, GEA compares certain ovens and freezers with previous models, as these are widely available on the market and will continue to be available on the market. This approach also guarantees that the data used for the purposes of the calculation is consistently reliable.

#### Key taxonomy-relevant economic activities

GEA is one of the largest suppliers of systems and components to the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries worldwide. In the context of the regulation, it is primarily operating in the areas of "manufacturing", "energy", "water supply, sewerage, waste management and remediation (activities)", "information and communication" as well as "services". In addition to GEA's value-creating activities, other activities were identified that can be classified as environmentally sustainable capital expenditure (CapEx) or operating expense (OpEx) under the Regulation. They particularly include the areas of "traffic" and "transport", which relate to the company's own vehicle fleet as well as freight transport, "construction and real estate", which relate to the new construction of the company's own sites and production facilities, as well as "information and communication" in connection with the provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions.

## Page 131

## Based on the analysis, GEA identified the following economic activities defined by the Taxonomy Regulation in 2023:

| Code     | Economic activity under the Taxonomy Regulation                                                                                                 | Description of the economic activity under the Taxonomy Regulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Application of the economic activity at GEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| CCM_3.1  | Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                                    | Manufacture of renewable energy technologies, where renewable energy is defined<br>in Article 2(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/2001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | • Manufacturing of heat pumps.<br><br>• Manufacturing of technologies for the production of bio diesel, bio ethanol, bio gas and hydrogenated<br>vegetable oil (HVO) and bio mass.                                                                                               |
| CCM_3.5  | Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                        | Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | • Manufacturing of refrigeration systems for buildings (such as shopping malls, airports, production plants).                                                                                                                                                                    |
| CCM_3.6  | Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                                                    | Manufacture of technologies aimed at substantial GHG emission reductions in other<br>sectors of the economy, where those technologies are not covered in the economic<br>activities 3.1 to 3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | • Manufacturing of technologies for the development and production of alternatives to milk and<br>meat e.g. plant-based, insect or fermented proteins, or in-vitro meat.                                                                                                         |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Design and manufacturing of customized integrated solutions for production processes and plants to<br>reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions.                                                                                                                              |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Manufacturing of electric ovens using electric heating rods instead of industry standard direct gas burners.                                                                                                                                                                   |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Manufacturing of freezing tunnels with highly energy-efficient pre-cooling sections.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Technologies for the production of active material for lithium batteries, e.g. spray dryers for the production of<br>cathode material as well as the crystallization of active material.                                                                                       |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Manufacturing of plants for CO2 recovery in breweries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|          |                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • "Add Better" - Sustainable solutions that are significantly more efficient and environmentally friendly<br>than their predecessors.                                                                                                                                            |
| CCM_4.25 | Production of heat/cool using waste heat                                                                                                        | Construction and operation of facilities that produce heat/cool using waste heat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | • Manufacturing of waste heat recovery systems (e.g. by mechanical or thermal compression or<br>Organic Rankine Cycle).                                                                                                                                                          |
| CCM_5.1  | Construction, extension and operation of water collection,<br>treatment and supply systems                                                      | Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | • Manufacturing of plants for the purification and reprocessing of wastewater and industrial process<br>wastewater e.g. as drinking water and/or service water.                                                                                                                  |
| CCM_5.9  | Material recovery from non-hazardous waste                                                                                                      | Construction and operation of facilities for the sorting and processing of separately<br>collected non-hazardous waste streams into secondary raw materials involving mechanical<br>reprocessing, except for backfilling purposes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | • Manufacturing of technologies for the conversion of manure into bio fertilizer and bedding from cow dung.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| CCM_6.3  | Urban and suburban transport, road passenger transport                                                                                          | Purchase, financing, leasing, rental and operation of urban and suburban transport<br>vehicles for passengers and road passenger transport                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | • Leasing of factory buses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| CCM_6.4  | Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics                                                                                         | Selling, purchasing, financing, leasing, renting and operation of personal mobility or<br>transport devices where the propulsion comes from the physical activity of the user,<br>from a zero-emissions motor, or a mix of zero-emissions motor and physical activity.<br>This includes the provision of freight transport services by (cargo) bicycles                                                                                                                         | • Leasing of (electric) bicycles.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| CCM_6.5  | Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars<br>and light commercial vehicles                                                                        | Purchase, financing, renting, leasing and operation of vehicles designated as category M1,<br>N1, both falling under the scope of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 of the European Parliament<br>and of the Council, or L (2- and 3-wheel vehicles and quadricycles)                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Leasing of sales and service vehicles as well as incentive cars.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| CCM_6.6  | Freight transport services by road                                                                                                              | Purchase, financing, leasing, rental and operation of vehicles designated as category<br>N1, N2 or N3 falling under the scope of EURO VI, step E or its successor, for freight<br>transport services by road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | • Leasing of trucks for freight transportation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| CCM_7.3  | Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>energy efficiency equipment                                                                          | Individual renovation measures consisting in installation, maintenance or repair<br>of energy efficiency equipment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | • Installation, maintenance, and repair of energy-efficient equipment in owned and/or leased buildings.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Code     | Economic activity under the Taxonomy Regulation                                                                                                 | Description of the economic activity under the Taxonomy Regulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Application of the economic activity at GEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| CCM_7.4  | Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations<br>for electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces<br>attached to buildings)   | Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in<br>buildings and parking spaces attached to buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | • Installation of charging stations for electric vehicles (incl. maintenance, servicing etc.).                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| CCM_7.5  | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and<br>devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy<br>performance of buildings | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring,<br>regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | • Installation, maintenance and repair of equipment for measuring, regulating and controlling the<br>energy performance of owned and/or leased buildings.                                                                                                                        |
| CCM_7.6  | Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>renewable energy technologies                                                                        | Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies, on-site                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | • Maintenance and repair of heat pumps and heat exchanger/heat recovery systems installed as a<br>building services system.<br>• Installation, maintenance and repair of solar- and photovoltaic systems.                                                                        |
| CCM_7.7  | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                          | Buying real estate and exercising ownership of that real estate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | • Construction of a production center incl. administration building as well as warehouse and logistics<br>areas for own use in Koszalin, Poland.<br>• Construction of a CO₂-neutral pharmaceutical and technology center.<br>• Leasing of (existing) buildings at GEA locations. |
| CCM_9.2  | Research, development and innovation for direct<br>air capture of CO₂                                                                           | Research, applied research and experimental development of solutions, processes,<br>technologies, business models and other products dedicated to the direct air capture of<br>CO₂ in the atmosphere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | • Research on and development of carbon capture plants.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| WTR_2.2  | Urban waste water treatment                                                                                                                     | Construction, extension, upgrade, operation and renewal of urban waste water infrastructure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | • Decanter for the treatment of municipal waste water and polluted water.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| CE_2.2   | Production of alternative water resources for<br>purposes other than human consumption                                                          | Construction, extension, operation and renewal of facilities for producing reclaimed water,<br>facilities for harvesting rain and storm water and facilities for collection and treatment of<br>grey water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | • Decanters and Separators for the treatment and purification of greywater on ships for reusage.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| CE_4.1   | Provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions                                                                                                        | Manufacture, development, installation, deployment, maintenance, repair or provision of<br>professional services for design or monitoring of software and information technology or<br>operational technology systems built for the purpose of remote monitoring and predictive<br>maintenance, tracking and tracing software, lifecycle assessment software, design and<br>engineering software, supplier management software and lifecycle performance<br>management software | • Condition-based monitoring equipment to improve the efficiency and reliability of equipment and enabling plant<br>operators optimize their performance, while focusing on the lifetime of the machines and products.                                                           |
| CE_5.1   | Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing                                                                                                       | Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing of goods                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | • Service technicians, who conduct preventive maintenance, troubleshooting and ad-hoc problem<br>solving or constant service assurance.                                                                                                                                          |
| CE_5.2   | Sale of spare parts                                                                                                                             | Sale of spare parts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | • Spare parts, which are either installed by a GEA service technician or by the customer,<br>after the initial part wore out.                                                                                                                                                    |
| CE_5.5   | Product-as-a-service and other circular use- and<br>result-oriented service models                                                              | Providing customers with access to products through service models,<br>which are either use-oriented services or result-oriented services                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | • Provision of production equipment for customers in the food industry for their own use.                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## Page 135

To comply with the technical screening criteria, the prescribed energy efficiency was modelled and calculated for the new building project in the USA using a suitable simulation program. The simulation takes into account the location, geometry and use of the building and was derived using standardised properties for the building envelope and building systems, such as lighting, mechanical systems and controls. Using the local specifications and program, GEA considers the calculation of the energy efficiency to be sufficiently reliable.

Taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure includes expenditure that is directly and exclusively attributable to taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned products, technologies and applications. Examples include machinery used exclusively to manufacture taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned products, service and sales vehicles and construction costs for new administrative buildings and production facilities.

Capital expenditure which is not directly taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned is calculated indirectly in relation to taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned revenues. This includes general expenses required to generate taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned revenues, such as machinery, IT equipment or the transport of goods. The factor of the taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned revenue KPI is applied to the total sum of capital expenditure – reduced by the portion of directly allocated capital expenditure.

There were no additions as a result of business combinations in the year under review.

#### Operating expense

The denominator for the KPI consists of direct, non-capitalized costs related to research and development, building renovations, leasing, maintenance and repair of machinery and equipment. The numerator is equivalent to the proportion of the denominator which group companies have identified as taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned and meets one of the following criteria:

- There is a connection between assets and/or processes and taxonomy-eligible and/or taxonomy-aligned economic activities;
- The connection relates to the purchase of products from taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned economic activities and individual measures that make it possible for the group to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions in the performance of its economic activities as well as building renovations, provided these measures are implemented within 18 months of the reporting date.

Taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned operating expenses includes expenses that are directly and exclusively attributable to taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned products, technologies and applications. Examples include research and development costs, renovation costs for buildings owned by GEA, and maintenance and repair of machinery and equipment.

Operating expenses not directly taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned are calculated indirectly in relation to taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned revenues. This relates to operating expenses required to keep the assets in functional condition. The factor of the taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned revenue KPI is applied to the total sum of operating expenses – reduced by the portion of directly allocated operating expenses.

No investment plans to expand taxonomy-eligible economic activities apply.

#### Development and explanation of KPIs

As in the previous year, the calculation of the KPIs is based on taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned data, some of which was retrieved from the accounting systems. In addition, as in the previous year, manual disclosures from the divisions and business units are required. These disclosures are requested on a centralized basis by Corporate Controlling using a semi-automated SAC tool and consolidated for the purpose of calculating the key figures. The key figures are then calculated manually. This tool replaces the Excel template used in the previous year.

As in the previous year, no training costs were included in operating expenditure in the year under review. The analysis of training expenses with a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned purpose requires a high administrative effort. At the same time, its impact on the KPI is not considered material, and is therefore not carried out. This does not have any significant impact on the operating expense indicator. As a result, GEA assumes that the calculations used to estimate the indicators are sufficiently reliable.

## Page 136

The taxonomy-eligible key revenue figure increased from 8.3 percent in the previous year to 41.1 percent. Among other things, the improvement results from the inclusion of revenue sales of sustainable "Add Better" solutions. Apart from that, service sales and the spare parts business are contributing to the increase in the key sales figure for the first time with a contribution to environmental objective (4), although alignment has not yet been verified. Moreover, an increase in the taxonomy-eligible revenue figure results from revenue increases in connection with the production of other low-carbon technologies. This includes new food projects, plants for the production of active material for lithium batteries for the automotive sector, heat pumps, plants for water extraction, treatment and supply as well as integrated solutions for production processes and supply facilities to reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions.

The taxonomy-aligned revenue KPI amounts to 12.0 percent (previous year: 7.7 percent) and mainly comprises the aforementioned revenue areas. The increase in the key figure is largely attributable to the revenue recognition of "Add Better". The service revenue reported for the first time and the spare parts business with a contribution to environmental objective (4) have not yet been considered with regard to taxonomy alignment.

The taxonomy-eligible CapEx figure increased from 37.4 percent to 58.1 percent compared to the previous year. This is mainly due to the attributable indirect capital expenditures in connection with the service and spare parts business and with sustainable "Add Better" solutions. Furthermore, capital expenditures include development costs for the new production center in Janesville, USA, and for the planned technology center in Elsdorf, Germany. Continuous investments in an electronic sustainable vehicle fleet and investments in energy-efficient building fit-out as well as machinery and equipment for the New Food business further increased the CapEx-KPI.

The taxonomy-aligned CapEx KPI is 23.1 percent (previous year: 20.7 percent). The difference between the CapEx KPI for taxonomy eligibility and for taxonomy alignment is mainly the result of leasing for own buildings that do not yet comply with energy efficiency requirements set out by the regulation. It is also attributable to the classification of the electric vehicle fleet as a taxonomy-eligible investment only, as the criteria for alignment regarding tires are not met and therefore cannot be reported as taxonomy-aligned. Moreover, alignment has not yet been assessed for the activities reported for the first time with a substantial contribution to environmental objectives (3) and (4).

The taxonomy-eligible OpEx figure of 43.1 percent has likewise increased substantially compared to the previous year (previous year: 10.6 percent). The taxonomy-eligible operating expenses include the installation, maintenance and repair of energy-efficient equipment in own buildings as well as the maintenance as well as repair of own solar and photovoltaic systems and taxonomy-relevant plant and machinery. In 2023, the reported activities with a contribution to environmental objectives (3) and (4) contribute to an increase in the key figure for the first time, although they are not yet taken into account for alignment. The taxonomy-aligned OpEx KPI amounts to 13.1 percent and mainly comprises the aforementioned types of expenses.

Generally, the increase in the taxonomy-eligible revenue figures also led to an increase in the CapEx and OpEx KPI since calculations of capital expenditures as well as operating expenses are proportionately based on the taxonomy-relevant revenue.

#### Further information

When identifying taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned economic activities, GEA's product portfolio was consistently assigned to only one economic activity within the meaning of the Regulation in order to prevent double counting. Double counting was also avoided by only taking into account external revenue in the denominator for the revenue KPI in situations where multiple divisions were involved in a taxonomy-relevant activity, and this led to intercompany revenue. The clear allocation of economic activities also prevented double counting of capital expenditure and operating expense.

Where revenue, CapEx and OpEx could not be fully allocated to a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned activity, these expenses were allocated based on appropriate parameters or reasonable and transparent assumptions. Examples of appropriate parameters for CapEx or OpEx include production output or machine hours. If such information is unavailable, an appropriate allocation is made based on alternative parameters such as future revenue.

## Page 137

#### Proportion of revenue from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned or taxonomy-eligible economic activities – disclosure for fiscal year 20231

| Financial year N                                                                                                     |          |              | Year                                      | Substantial contribution criteria |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   | DNSH criteria (,Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|--------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------|----------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                              | Code (2) | Turnover (3) | Proportion of turnover, year N (4)        | Climate change mitigation (5)     | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water and marine resources (7) | Circular economy (8) | Pollution (9) | Biodiversity and eco-systems (10) | Climate change mitigation (11)                | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water and marine resources (13) | Circular economy (14) | Pollution (15) | Biodiversity and eco-systems (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) turnover, year N-1 (18) | Category (enabling activity) (19) | Category (transitional activity) (20) |  |
| Text                                                                                                                 |          | k Euro       | %                                         | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL                     | Y; N; N/EL           | Y; N; N/EL    | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y/N                                           | Y/N                            | Y/N                             | Y/N                   | Y/N            | Y/N                               | Y/N                     | %                                                                                | E                                 |                                       |  |
| A. TAXONOMY ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                      |          |              |                                           |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                        |          |              |                                           |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                         | CCM 3.1  | 38,862       | 0.7                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 0.6                                                                              | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                             | CCM 3.5  | 12,959       | 0.2                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 0.2                                                                              | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                         | CCM 3.6  | 454,617      | 8.5                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 4.4                                                                              | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Production of heat/cool using waste heat                                                                             | CCM 4.25 | 469          | 0.0                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 0.1                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems                              | CCM 5.1  | 59,317       | 1.1                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 1.0                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Material recovery from non-hazardous waste                                                                           | CCM 5.9  | 77,368       | 1.4                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 1.6                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Research, development and innovation for direct air capture of CO2                                                   | CCM 9.2  | 261          | 0.0                                       | Y                                 | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              | N/A                                           | Y                              | Y                               | Y                     | Y              | Y                                 | Y                       | 0.0                                                                              | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                          |          | 643,853      | 12.0                                      | 12.0                              |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 7.7                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                                    |          | 506,699      | 9.4                                       | 9.4                               |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 5.2                                                                              | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                                |          | 0            | 0.0                                       | 0.0                               |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 0.0                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)               |          |              |                                           |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
|                                                                                                                      |          |              |                                           | EL; N/EL                          | EL; N/EL                      | EL; N/EL                       | EL; N/EL             | EL; N/EL      | EL; N/EL                          |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies²                                                                        | CCM 3.6  | 500          | 0.0                                       | EL                                | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection, treatment and supply systems²                             | CCM 5.1  | -            | -                                         | N/A                               | N/A                           | N/A                            | N/A                  | N/A           | N/A                               |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 0.3                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Retrofitting of sea and coastal freight and passenger water transport                                                | CCM 6.12 | -            | -                                         | N/A                               | N/A                           | N/A                            | N/A                  | N/A           | N/A                               |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 0.3                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| Urban Waste Water Treatment                                                                                          | WTR 2.2  | 803          | 0.0                                       | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | EL                             | N/EL                 | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Financial year N                                                                                                     |          |              | Year<br>Substantial contribution criteria |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   | DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm)   |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                              | Code (2) | Turnover (3) | Proportion of turnover, year N (4)        | Climate change mitigation (5)     | Climate change adaptation (6) | Water and marine resources (7) | Circular economy (8) | Pollution (9) | Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)  | Climate change mitigation (11)                | Climate change adaptation (12) | Water and marine resources (13) | Circular economy (14) | Pollution (15) | Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)  | Minimum safeguards (17) | Proportion of Taxonomy aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) turnover, year N-1 (18) | Category (enabling activity) (19) |                                       |  |
| Text                                                                                                                 |          | k Euro       | %                                         | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL                     | Y; N; N/EL           | Y; N; N/EL    | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y/N                                           | Y/N                            | Y/N                             | Y/N                   | Y/N            | Y/N                               | Y/N                     | %                                                                                | E                                 |                                       |  |
| Production of alternative water resources for purposes other than human consumption                                  | CE 2.2   | 43,259       | 0.8                                       | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | EL                   | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions and software                                                                | CE 4.1   | 4,805        | 0.1                                       | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | EL                   | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing                                                                            | CE 5.1   | 408,832      | 7.6                                       | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | EL                   | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                                  | CE 5.2   | 1,107,706    | 20.6                                      | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | EL                   | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Product-as-a-service and other circular use- and result-oriented service models                                      | CE 5.5   | 193          | 0.0                                       | N/EL                              | N/EL                          | N/EL                           | EL                   | N/EL          | N/EL                              |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | -                                                                                |                                   |                                       |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |          | 1,566,098    | 29.1                                      | 0.0%                              |                               | 0.0%                           | 29.1%                |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 0.6                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| A. Turnover of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1+A.2)                                                                |          | 2,209,951    | 41.1                                      | 12.0%                             |                               | 0.0%                           | 29.1%                |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         | 8.3                                                                              |                                   |                                       |  |
| B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                  |          |              |                                           |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy non-eligible activities                                                                         |          | 3,164,040    | 58.9                                      |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                          |          | 5,373,991    | 100.0                                     |                                   |                               |                                |                      |               |                                   |                                               |                                |                                 |                       |                |                                   |                         |                                                                                  |                                   |                                       |  |

## Page 138

#### NON-FINANCIAL GROUP STATEMENT TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS **COMBINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT** CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

≡ <− −>

1) When using rounded amounts and percentages, minor differences may occur due to standard rounding rules.

2) The activity is taxonomy-eligible in its entirety. However, only a proportion of it is taxonomy-aligned. Therefore, the activity may be reported under both A1 and A2. However, only the proportion reported under A1 may be counted as taxonomy-aligned in the turnover KPI of the non-financial undertaking.

#### Economic activities that contribute to multiple environmental objectives

| Environmental objectives<br>(in %) | Taxonomy aligned<br>per objective | Taxonomy eligible<br>per objective |
|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| CCM                                | 12.0                              | 12.0                               |
| CCA                                | 0.0                               | 0.0                                |
| WTR                                | 0.0                               | 0.0                                |
| CE                                 | 0.0                               | 29.1                               |
| PPC                                | 0.0                               | 0.0                                |
| BIO                                | 0.0                               | 0.0                                |

## Page 139

### Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned or taxonomy-eligible economic activities – disclosure for fiscal year 20231

| Financial year N                                                                                                                                |             |                                   | Year                                         |                                        |                                        | Substantial contribution criteria       |                            |                                             |                                             | DNSH criteria (,Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | CapEx<br>(3)                      | Proportion<br>(3) of CapEx,<br>year N<br>(4) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollution<br>(9)                            | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)       | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Minimum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Proportion<br>of Taxono-<br>my aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>(19) | Category<br>tran-<br>sitional<br>activity<br>(20) |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                            | %                                            | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                 | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                       | E                                        |                                                   |
| A. TAXONOMY ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                                 |             |                                   |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| A.1. CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned)                                                                      |             |                                   |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                                    | CCM 3.1     | 1,470                             | 0.5                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.6                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                        | CCM 3.5     | 622                               | 0.2                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.7                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                                                    | CCM 3.6     | 20,272                            | 7.1                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 4.8                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Production of heat/cool using waste heat                                                                                                        | CCM 4.25    | 18                                | 0.0                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.2                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection,<br>treatment and supply systems                                                      | CCM 5.1     | 2,645                             | 0.9                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.7                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Material recovery from non-hazardous waste                                                                                                      | CCM 5.9     | 4,808                             | 1.7                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 1.5                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics                                                                                         | CCM 6.4     | 57                                | 0.0                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and<br>light commercial vehicles                                                                        | CCM 6.5     | 600                               | 0.2                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.7                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>energy efficiency equipment                                                                          | CCM 7.3     | 1,851                             | 0.6                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.5                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for<br>electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces<br>attached to buildings)   | CCM 7.4     | 2,176                             | 0.8                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.3                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and<br>devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy<br>performance of buildings | CCM 7.5     | 30                                | 0.0                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.1                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>renewable energy technologies                                                                        | CCM 7.6     | 6,436                             | 2.3                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.7                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                          | CCM 7.7     | 23,806                            | 8.4                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 9.9                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Research, development and innovation for<br>direct air capture of CO2                                                                           | CCM 9.2     | 1,082                             | 0.4                                          | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        | N/A                                           | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                 |             |                                   |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Financial year N                                                                                                                                |             |                                   | Year                                         |                                        |                                        | Substantial contribution criteria       |                            |                                             |                                             | DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm)   |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | CapEx<br>(3)                      | Proportion<br>of CapEx,<br>year N<br>(4)     | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollution<br>(9)                            | Biodiversity<br>and eco<br>systems<br>(10)  | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)       | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco<br>systems<br>(16)  | Minimum<br>safe<br>guards<br>(17)  | Proportion<br>of Taxono-<br>my aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>(19) | Category<br>tran-<br>sitional<br>activity<br>(20) |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                            | %                                            | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                 | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                       | E                                        |                                                   |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                     |             | 65,871                            | 23.1                                         | 23.1                                   |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 20.7                                                                                                    |                                          |                                                   |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                                                               |             | 33,939                            | 11.9                                         | 11.9                                   |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 7.7                                                                                                     | E                                        |                                                   |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                                                           |             | 0                                 |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                    |             |                                   |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                 |             |                                   |                                              | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                                | EL; N/EL                   | EL; N/EL                                    | EL; N/EL                                    |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies²                                                                                                   | CCM 3.6     | 18                                | 0.0                                          | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection,<br>treatment and supply systems²                                                     | CCM 5.1     | -                                 | -                                            | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                        | N/A                                         | N/A                                         |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.2                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Urban and suburban transport, road passenger transport                                                                                          | CCM 6.3     | 491                               | 0.2                                          | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.4                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and<br>light commercial vehicles²                                                                       | CCM 6.5     | 30,540                            | 10.7                                         | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 6.8                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Freight transport services by road                                                                                                              | CCM 6.6     | 96                                | 0.0                                          | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.0                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Retrofitting of sea and coastal freight and<br>passenger water transport                                                                        | CCM 6.12    | -                                 | -                                            | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                        | N/A                                         | N/A                                         |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.2                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>energy efficiency equipment²                                                                         | CCM 7.3     | -                                 | -                                            | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                        | N/A                                         | N/A                                         |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.4                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings²                                                                                                         | CCM 7.7     | 7,161                             | 2.5                                          | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 8.6                                                                                                     |                                          |                                                   |
| Urban Waste Water Treatment                                                                                                                     | WTR 2.2     | 30                                | 0.0                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | EL                                      | N/EL                       | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Production of alternative water resources for<br>purposes other than human consumption                                                          | CE 2.2      | 1,663                             | 0.6                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                         | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions and software                                                                                           | CE 4.1      | 2,269                             | 0.8                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                         | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing                                                                                                       | CE 5.1      | 15,434                            | 5.4                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                         | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                                                             | CE 5.2      | 41,808                            | 14.7                                         | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                         | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Product-as-a-service and other circular<br>use- and result-oriented service models                                                              | CE 5.5      | 7                                 | 0.0                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                         | N/EL                                        | N/EL                                        |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                       |                                          |                                                   |
| Financial year N                                                                                                                                | Year        | Substantial contribution criteria |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            | DNSH criteria (Does Not Significantly Harm) |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | CapEx<br>(3)                      | Proportion<br>of CapEx,<br>year N<br>(4)     | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollution<br>(9)                            | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)       | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Minimum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Proportion<br>of Taxono-<br>my aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>(19) | Category<br>tran-<br>sitional<br>activity<br>(20) |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                            | %                                            | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                 | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                       | E                                        |                                                   |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)                         |             | 99,519                            | 34.9                                         | 13.5%                                  |                                        | 0.0%                                    | 21.5%                      |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 16.7                                                                                                    |                                          |                                                   |
| CapEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A1+A2)                                                                                                   |             | 165,390                           | 51.1                                         | 36.6%                                  |                                        | 0.0%                                    | 21.5%                      |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 37.4                                                                                                    |                                          |                                                   |
| B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                             |             |                                   |                                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| CapEx of Taxonomy non-eligible activities                                                                                                       |             | 119,401                           | 41.9                                         |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                                                     |             | 284,791                           | 100.0                                        |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                             |                                             |                                               |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                         |                                          |                                                   |

## Page 140

#### NON-FINANCIAL GROUP STATEMENT TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS **COMBINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT** CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

☰ ↤ ↦

## Page 141

#### NON-FINANCIAL GROUP STATEMENT TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS **COMBINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT** CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION

≡ <− −>

1) When using rounded amounts and percentages, minor differences may occur due to standard rounding rules.

2) The activity is taxonomy-eligible in its entirety. However, only a proportion of it is taxonomy-aligned. Therefore, the activity may be reported under both A1 and A2. However, only the proportion reported under A1 may be counted as taxonomy-aligned in the CapEx KPI of the non-financial undertaking.

#### Economic activities that contribute to multiple environmental objectives

| Environmental objectives<br>(in %) | Taxonomy aligned<br>per objective | Taxonomy eligible<br>per objective |
|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| CCM                                | 23.1                              | 36                                 |
| CCA                                | 0                                 | 0                                  |
| WTR                                | 0                                 | 0                                  |
| CE                                 | 0                                 | 21                                 |
| PPC                                | 0                                 | 0                                  |
| BIO                                | 0                                 | 0                                  |

## Page 142

#### Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned or taxonomy-eligible economic activities – disclosure for fiscal year 20231

| Financial year N                                                                                                                                |             |                                | Year                              |                                        |                                        |                                         | Substantial contribution criteria |                  |                                             | DNSH criteria (,Do No Significant Harm') |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | Absolute<br>OpEx (3)           | Proportion<br>of OpEx<br>(4)      | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8)        | Pollution<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)  | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Minimum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Proportion<br>of Taxono-<br>my aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.) OpEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>(enabling<br>activity)<br>(19) | Category<br>(transiti<br>onal<br>activity)<br>(20) |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                         | %                                 | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL       | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                   | E                                          |                                                    |
| A. TAXONOMY ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                                 |             |                                |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned)                                                                                |             |                                |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                                    | CCM 3.1     | 1,272                          | 0.8                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.8                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings                                                                                        | CCM 3.5     | 380                            | 0.2                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.1                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                                                    | CCM 3.6     | 13,257                         | 8.2                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 4.3                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Production of heat/cool using waste heat                                                                                                        | CCM<br>4.25 | 242                            | 0.2                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.5                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection,<br>treatment and supply systems                                                      | CCM 5.1     | 2,562                          | 1.6                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 1.4                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Material recovery from non-hazardous waste                                                                                                      | CCM 5.9     | 2,725                          | 1.7                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 1.9                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Operation of personal mobility devices, cycle logistics                                                                                         | CCM 6.4     | 7                              | 0.0                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>energy efficiency equipment                                                                          | CCM 7.3     | 322                            | 0.2                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.5                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for<br>electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces<br>attached to buildings)   | CCM 7.4     | 4                              | 0.0                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and<br>devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy<br>performance of buildings | CCM 7.5     | 20                             | 0.0                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>renewable energy technologies                                                                        | CCM 7.6     | 7                              | 0.0                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Research, development and innovation for<br>direct air capture of CO2                                                                           | CCM 9.2     | 319                            | 0.2                               | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        | N/A                                      | Y                                       | Y                                        | Y                           | Y                 | Y                                           | Y                                  | 0.0                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                                 |             |                                |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Financial year N                                                                                                                                |             |                                | Year                              |                                        |                                        |                                         | Substantial contribution criteria |                  |                                             | DNSH criteria (,Do No Significant Harm') |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | Absolute<br>OpEx (3)<br>k Euro | Proportion<br>of OpEx<br>(4)<br>% | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8)        | Pollution<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)  | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Minimum<br>safeguards<br>(17)      | Proportion<br>of Taxonomy aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.) OpEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18)<br>% | Category<br>(enabling<br>activity)<br>(19) | Category<br>(transitional<br>activity)<br>(20)     |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                         | %                                 | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL       | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                   | E                                          | E                                                  |
| OpEx of env.sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned (A.1)                                                                                   |             | 21,117                         | 13.1                              | 13.1                                   |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 9.7                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                                                               |             | 15,581                         | 9.6                               | 9.6                                    |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 5.7                                                                                                 | E                                          |                                                    |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                                                           |             | 0.0                            | 0.0                               | 0.0                                    |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                    |             |                                |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                                 |             |                                |                                   | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                                | EL; N/EL                          | EL; N/EL         | EL; N/EL                                    |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies2                                                                                                   | CCM 3.6     | 15                             | 0.0                               | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Construction, extension and operation of water collection,<br>treatment and supply systems2                                                     | CCM 5.1     | -                              | -                                 | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                               | N/A              | N/A                                         |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.3                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Retrofitting of sea and coastal freight and<br>passenger water transport                                                                        | CCM 6.12    | -                              | -                                 | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                               | N/A              | N/A                                         |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.3                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>energy efficiency equipment2                                                                         | CCM 7.3     | -                              | -                                 | N/A                                    | N/A                                    | N/A                                     | N/A                               | N/A              | N/A                                         |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.3                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Urban Waste Water Treatment                                                                                                                     | WTR 2.2     | 23                             | 0.0                               | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | EL                                      | N/EL                              | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Production of alternative water resources for<br>purposes other than human consumption                                                          | CE 2.2      | 1,256                          | 0.8                               | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions and software                                                                                           | CE 4.1      | 3,021                          | 1.9                               | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing                                                                                                       | CE 5.1      | 11,914                         | 7.4                               | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                                                             | CE 5.2      | 32,163                         | 19.9                              | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Product-as-a-service and other circular<br>use- and result-oriented service models                                                              | CE 5.5      | 6                              | 0.0                               | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                | N/EL             | N/EL                                        |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | -                                                                                                   |                                            |                                                    |
| Financial year N                                                                                                                                | Year        |                                |                                   | Substantial contribution criteria      |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             | DNSH criteria (,Do No Significant Harm') |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                         | Code<br>(2) | Absolute<br>OpEx (3)           | Proportion<br>of OpEx<br>(4)      | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8)        | Pollution<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)  | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Circular<br>economy<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Minimum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Proportion<br>of Taxono-<br>my aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.) OpEx,<br>year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>(enabling<br>activity)<br>(19) | Category<br>(transitional<br>activity)<br>(20)     |
| Text                                                                                                                                            |             | k Euro                         | %                                 | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                             | Y; N; N/EL                              | Y; N; N/EL                        | Y; N; N/EL       | Y; N; N/EL                                  | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                      | Y/N                         | Y/N               | Y/N                                         | Y/N                                | %                                                                                                   | E                                          |                                                    |
| OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but<br>not environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)                          |             | 48,398                         | 30.0                              | 0.0%                                   |                                        | 0.0%                                    | 30.0%                             |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 0.9                                                                                                 |                                            |                                                    |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                                               |             | 69,514                         | 43.1                              | 13.1%                                  |                                        | 0.0%                                    | 30.0%                             |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    | 10.6                                                                                                |                                            |                                                    |
| B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                             |             |                                |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| OpEx of Taxonomy non-eligible activities (B)                                                                                                    |             | 91,857                         | 56.9                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                                                     |             | 161,371                        | 100.0                             |                                        |                                        |                                         |                                   |                  |                                             |                                          |                                         |                                          |                             |                   |                                             |                                    |                                                                                                     |                                            |                                                    |

## Page 143

#### NON-FINANCIAL GROUP STATEMENT TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS **COMBINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT** CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

:: <-> ->

## Page 144

#### NON-FINANCIAL GROUP STATEMENT TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS **COMBINED GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT** CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

:::
<-
->

1) When using rounded amounts and percentages, minor differences may occur due to standard rounding rules.

<sup>2</sup>) The activity is taxonomy-eligible in its entirety. However, only a proportion of it is taxonomy-aligned. Therefore, the activity may be reported under both A1 and A2. However, only the proportion reported under A1 may be counted as taxonomy-aligned in the OpEx KPI of the non-financial undertaking.

#### Economic activities that contribute to multiple environmental objectives

| Environmental objectives (in %) | Taxonomy aligned per objective | Taxonomy eligible per objective |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| CCM                             | 13.1                           | 13.1                            |
| CCA                             | 0                              | 0                               |
| WTR                             | 0                              | 0                               |
| CE                              | 0                              | 30                              |
| PPC                             | 0                              | 0                               |
| BIO                             | 0                              | 0                               |

## Page 145

## Template 1 Nuclear and fossil gas related activities

| Row | Nuclear energy related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|-----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle                                                                                        |
| 2   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies |
| 3   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades                          |
|     | <b>Fossil gas related activities</b>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 4   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels                                                                                                                                                           |
| 5   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels                                                                                                                                                  |
| 6   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels                                                                                                                                                    |

## Page 146

# **OPPORTUNITIES AND RISK REPORT**

## Opportunity and risk management targets

As an international company, GEA faces increasingly stringent regulatory requirements, higher stakeholder expectations, and a more volatile market environment, which is reflected in shorter innovation and production cycles with increased competitive intensity.

Considering this development, the systematic and uniform identification, assessment, and management of opportunities and risks across the group constitutes an ongoing task for GEA and is an integral part of the group's various workflows.

For GEA, the group-wide opportunity and risk management system is an integral part of value-oriented corporate governance, contributing to the group's long-term viability and its successful development. GEA defines opportunities as positive and risks as negative deviations from planned short-term operational and long-term strategic targets.

The key variables for the assessment of opportunities and risks are the amount of the potential success or loss and their probability of occurrence. The probability of occurrence refers to the estimated probability or statistically expected value for the occurrence of a certain event in a specific period in the future. The expected value of the success or loss is determined by multiplying these two figures. The result is calculated to provide current and target values.

The current value describes the maximum success/loss that results if, in the event of the occurrence of an opportunity/risk, control measures do not take effect because they either do not exist or do not function as planned. The target value of an opportunity/risk describes the potential success/loss that results if existing control measures take effect when an opportunity/risk occurs. The target value is calculated by subtracting (in case of risks) or adding (in case of opportunities) the evaluated control measure from or to the current value, considering the costs for the respective control measures.

GEA's medium-term planning is a key component in its approach to managing opportunities and risks. This process is used to prepare decisions on core technologies and markets, along with the corresponding allocation of resources. The objective is to ensure stability by diversification and by concentration on future markets. At the same time, developments that may jeopardize GEA's continued existence should be identified at an early stage.

Opportunities and risks arising from significant operating decisions – for example by accepting certain orders and implementing capital expenditure projects – are assessed and hence actively managed by the relevant departments and decision-makers at all group levels and in all functional units in a decision-making process that takes materiality criteria into account.

By integrating opportunity and risk information into existing planning and management processes, GEA is able to identify potential opportunities and risks on an aggregated level at an early stage and increase planning certainty for future development.

By regularly and systematically analyzing and managing opportunities and risks, GEA not only complies with the German regulatory requirements under the Aktiengesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act), but also provides a comprehensive management tool within the group that focuses on maintaining and increasing enterprise value. The opportunity and risk management process is supported by an audit-compliant IT solution that forms the basis for management reporting at the various group levels.

## Page 147

# Overall assessment of the opportunity and risk position and changes compared with the previous year

The identified risks from operating activities and the potential negative impact on earnings did not change to any significant degree compared with the previous year. However, as a globally active group, GEA's business activities face adverse effects from geopolitical developments and macroeconomic trends.

International conflicts or shifts in economic or political circumstances that adversely impact the group's production sites or markets could pose a significant risk. GEA continuously monitors geopolitical developments to enable it to proactively implement any risk mitigation measures and thus ensure the successful continuity of its global operations.

GEA's strategic orientation has proven resilient in the face of the highly volatile economic environment of the past few years. Moving forward, GEA will continue to position itself as a provider of sustainable solutions for the food, beverage, and pharmaceutical industries. This strategy is substantiated by the seven key levers of "Mission 26", which aims to accelerate profitable growth in the main sales markets by 2026. Unlocking and utilizing these operational opportunities is a central pillar of GEA's business activities.

The structure of GEA, with its regional diversification, continues to provide substantial protection against the clustering of individual risks into a substantial risk that could jeopardize the group's continuity. Furthermore, the group is not significantly dependent on individual suppliers or customers.

An analysis based on the current medium-term planning (period of 3 years) shows that the opportunity and risk situation has not materially changed compared with the previous year. No new risks have been identified that could have a potentially critical impact on the result of operations from the current standpoint.

In addition, the group-wide risk landscape, as well as the Executive Board's assessment, confirm that no risks have been identified that could endanger the company's continued existence as a going concern in the current forecast period. In its overall assessment of the risk landscape and supported by the result of a risk-bearing capacity analysis at Group level, there are no risks or risk combinations that could endanger the group's continued existence. It is also estimated that these risks unlikely to arise in the foreseeable future.

# Opportunity and risk management system

At GEA, the five divisions run the operating business and have global responsibility for revenue and profitability. These divisions are each organized into up to five business units. The Global Corporate Center supports the divisions/business units with financial, legal, technical, and other services. The global focus of the divisions and the Global Corporate Center is complemented by the country organizations, which provide the necessary market proximity and required organizational infrastructure.

The aim of GEA's group-wide opportunity and risk management system is to identify the main opportunities and risks in these operating and central business units at an early stage, analyze their main influencing factors, adequately assess their impacts, identify actions to exploit opportunities and minimize risks, and communicate these to the responsible decision-makers. The principles, framework, organization, and responsibilities for GEA's opportunity and risk management system are Group-wide standardized defined and are based on the international COSO II model (Committee of the Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission).

GEA has further developed its opportunity and risk management system as part of its ongoing efforts to reflect the latest regulatory requirements. Since the end of 2021, an interdisciplinary working group has been striving to improve the identification and assessment of climate risks, as well as the definition and implementation of measures to reduce these risks and enhance climate opportunities in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

In this context, GEA has conducted qualitative and quantitative scenario analyses for various time horizons, addressing risks associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy (transition risks), as well as physical risks, which result directly from climate change. For these scenario analyses, GEA defined and quantified long-term scenarios (up to 2050) with various global warming paths. In connection with this, the categorization model for identifying sustainability risks within the GEA Group was expanded, and the risk assessment options were extended to include different mathematical distribution functions.
