## Page 133

# <span id="page-132-0"></span>Chapter 4 Combined Non-financial Report

133

Jenoptik Annual Report 2023 Remuneration Report

## Page 134

# Separate Combined Non-financial Report in Accordance with the CSR Directive Implementation Act

## Position and Business Model

Management Combined

Management Report

For Jenoptik, entrepreneurial activity is not only the realization of economic goals but also a commitment to the environment and society. As a globally operating photonics group, innovation is our driving force and the basis of our success in business. Innovation and responsibility also form the core of our sustainability strategy. Together with our customers, we create forward-looking trends in the fields of healthcare, the environment, mobility, and safety. As an "enabler" we use our expertise and innovative products to make an important contribution to overcoming social and climate challenges as well as enabling customers worldwide to contribute more efficiently and sustainably to greater resource conservation and climate protection.

Jenoptik operates in the photonics market and supplies the majority of its products and services to the capital goods industry. The Group is thus primarily a technology partner to industrial companies and public sector contractors. According to the current SPECTARIS Trend Report, photonic solutions can make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to their properties, applications, and effects and enable resource-saving production processes as well as energy savings and reduce material consumption. According to SPECTARIS, the use of photonic technologies will reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by at least 11 percent by 2030.

As an enabler, Jenoptik supports the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through its products and solutions. Our biophotonics products improve health and well-being (SDG 3), Jenoptik road safety solutions help to make cities and communities more sustainable (SDG 11). We strengthen industry, innovation, and infrastructure (SDG 9) and enable responsible production through smart manufacturing (SDG 12). We promote more diversity among our employees (SDG 5) and continue to intensify our efforts to reduce greenhouse gases (SDG 13). As a supporter of the UN Global Compact – the world's largest initiative for responsible corporate governance – we commit to comprehensively complying with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption.

More information on the business model and markets can be found in chapter Business Model and Markets of this Annual Report

# Our Take on Sustainability

Our understanding of sustainability is based on the conviction that we can only achieve our economic goals, thereby sustaining profitable growth, by behaving responsibly towards the environment and society. The issue of sustainability, including climate protection, is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer. Responsible for the group-wide coordination of Jenoptik's sustainability management is the Investor Relations & Sustainability department, which coordinates this cross-cutting issue in close cooperation with the specialist departments involved as well as the divisions. An ESG Committee, comprising the relevant representatives of the central and operating business units, discusses current cross-cutting issues and ongoing ESG projects, coordinates the implementation of new regulations, and makes the necessary decisions. In 2023, for example, initial preparatory projects were carried out in connection with the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), such as the revision of our emission reduction targets and the determination of Scope 3 emissions. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board are regularly updated on the current projects.

## Page 135

With the publication of this separate Combined Non-financial Report we fulfill the requirements of the currently valid CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RL-UG) in accordance with § 289b (3) and 315b (3) of the German Commercial Code (HGB). For example, some individual indicators are already based on the CSRD to be applied in the future and the associated European Sustainable Reporting Standards (ESRS). The reporting requirements pursuant to Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation relating to the disclosure of environmentally sustainable business activities are also implemented. Taking into account the interests of our stakeholders, the report explains the material topics in terms of their impact and business relevance. This includes the areas of employees, the environment, social commitment, human rights, anti-corruption and supplier management. The basis for this is the materiality analysis prepared in accordance with the requirements of the CSR-RL-UG, the results of which were also consistently relevant for Jenoptik in 2023.

The information in the Non-financial Report applies equally to the Group and JENOPTIK AG; any information that differs is indicated. The GRI standard served as an orientation aid for the selection of key figures, but was not used for further detailing. This includes information on the number of employees, employees on parental leave or the fluctuation rate. In addition, to maintain clarity of reporting, no further framework was used. Risks were assessed in accordance with the requirements of CSR-RL-UG. In accordance with § 315b (1) (3) of the German Commercial Code, reference is occasionally made to other information available in the Group Management Report. The list below shows all the relevant passages in the Management Report that are relevant to the separate Combined Non-financial Report.

| • | Business model            | page 28          |
|---|---------------------------|------------------|
| • | Strategy                  | from page 32 on  |
| • | R+D/Innovation management | from page 39 on  |
| • | Risks & opportunities     | from page 72 on  |
| • | Diversity concept         | from page 102 on |

# Materiality Analysis

Jenoptik maintains ongoing dialog with all of its stakeholders. The materiality analysis carried out in 2020 in the form of an online survey via an independent assessment of all non-financial aspects that are material to sustainable business development was confirmed for the fiscal year 2023. The following sections report on the topics that are relevant both from the company's perspective and from the perspective of the respective external target groups (customers and business partners, suppliers, employees, shareholders, investors, and the general public). They are summarized in table T50 and reviewed annually. In addition to the reduction of CO<sup>2</sup> emissions, recruiting, and HR development as well as sustainable supplier management became of great importance to Jenoptik in the fiscal year 2023. In preparation for reporting in accordance with the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) for the fiscal year 2024, we have already started to carry out a so-called double materiality analysis. Based on expert assessments, Jenoptik's impact on people and nature as well as opportunities and risks for Jenoptik – in each case with the involvement of stakeholders – are identified and evaluated by experts. These key topics for Jenoptik in the future form the basis of all long-term ESG activities and will be incorporated into the new corporate strategy in the current fiscal year.

In the following, we provide information on key sustainability issues that are relevant both for our business performance and for our stakeholders, who have a particular focus on our impact on the environment and society, and that therefore have an impact on the environment and society.

## Page 136

Management Combined Management Report

Remuneration Report Non-financial Report Consolidated Financial Statements

# Sustainability Targets

Sustainability plays a crucial role in our corporate culture and is firmly anchored in the Group's corporate strategy. Our clear commitment to greater sustainability is evident in the wide range of sustainability objectives, some of which are also reflected in remuneration for the Executive Board and group financing. Both our debenture bonds and the syndicated loan are aligned to the ESG targets diversity rate, green electricity rate, and the Group's CSR rate.

The Group's sustainability objectives cover all ESG areas and are summarized in table T51. Jenoptik made considerable progress in the year under review, particularly in the environmental and climate protection area, and achieved the target values early, so that the short-term objectives were revised at the end of the year covered by the report. By 2025, Scope 1 + 2 emissions are to be reduced by at least 55 percent (before 30 percent) compared to the base year 2019 and the green electricity rate is to be more than 90 percent (before > 75 percent). The Jenoptik Group is striving to achieve "net zero" with regard to Scope 1+2 emissions by 2035 at the latest. Jenoptik has also increased its targets in the area of innovation management. For example, the Vitality Index is to reach a level of 25 percent in 2025 compared to the previous target of 22 percent. In the area of human resources, the target for employee-related turnover has been adjusted from <5 percent to <=10 percent due to changing market trends.

The sustainability targets are explained in detail in the respective subsequent sections of the Non-financial Report. Innovation topics can be found in the Research and Development chapter.

For more on the topic of innovation management, see the R+D chapter from page 39 on

#### T50 Key topics for Jenoptik

| Employees                                       | Environment and<br>climate protection              | Social commitment                                                                    | Human rights                                                                   | Anti-corruption                                                         | Other topics                                                                             |
|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Corporate culture<br>HR development             | Energy management<br>Reduction in CO2<br>emissions | Social commitment in<br>science, education, art<br>& culture, and social<br>projects | Compliance with<br>human rights and<br>social standards in<br>the supply chain | Responsible<br>business relationships<br>and fair business<br>practices | Innovation:<br>Environmentally<br>friendly products and<br>efficient use of<br>materials |
| Recruiting and<br>attractiveness as<br>employer | Water management                                   |                                                                                      | Sustainable supplier<br>management                                             | Integrity and<br>compliance                                             | Innovation-friendly<br>environment                                                       |
| Fair working<br>conditions                      | Resource<br>conservation                           |                                                                                      |                                                                                | Data protection                                                         | Customer satisfaction                                                                    |
| Occupational safety                             |                                                    |                                                                                      |                                                                                | Data security                                                           |                                                                                          |

## Page 137

Combined Non-financial Report

| Aspects     | Aspiration                                                                                                                                   | Performance indicators                                     | Status 2022 | Status 2023 | Target                             |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|------------------------------------|
| Employees   | We want to increase the<br>satisfaction and commitment                                                                                       | • Fluctuation<br>(attributable to employees)               | 7.1 %       | 5.8 %       | <=10 %                             |
|             | of the employees and the<br>attractiveness of Jenoptik as<br>an employer                                                                     | • Engagement score                                         | 76 %        | 75 %        | Better than<br>global<br>benchmark |
|             |                                                                                                                                              | • Absenteeism                                              | 6.5 %       | 6.2 %       | <5 %                               |
|             | We want to increase our diversity<br>and employ more women and<br>employees of international origin<br>in management positions               | • Diversity rate¹                                          | 30.6 %      | 29.4 %      | 33 % by 2025                       |
|             | We want to fill more vacancies                                                                                                               | • Training rate                                            | 3.5 %       | 3.5 %       | >4 %                               |
|             | with our own trainees                                                                                                                        | • Number of trainees taken on<br>(retention rate)          | 83.8 %      | 88.0 %      | 100 %                              |
| Innovation  | Securing and boosting<br>competitiveness, revenue, and<br>earnings through successful<br>innovations                                         |                                                            |             |             |                                    |
|             | • We want to increase the share<br>of revenue generated by<br>products and platforms which<br>have been developed in the last<br>three years | • Vitality Index                                           | 23.7 %      | 27.7 %      | Level >25 %                        |
| Environment | Reduction in CO2 emissions:                                                                                                                  |                                                            |             |             |                                    |
|             | • We want to increase the<br>proportion of green electricity<br>used at our main sites³                                                      | • Proportion of green electricity<br>at main sites         | 85.4 %      | 93.6 %      | >90 % by 2025                      |
|             | • We want to reduce our CO2<br>emissions                                                                                                     | • CO2 reduction (Scope 1+2) in                             | 35.9 %      | 50.5 %      | >55 % by 2025                      |
|             | • We want to expand our fleet of<br>trucks with alternative drive<br>technologies and build up a<br>corresponding infrastructure             | comparison to the base year<br>2019 (10,161 t)             |             |             |                                    |
|             |                                                                                                                                              | • Number of trucks in the fleet<br>with alternative drives | 16          | 35          | Increase                           |
|             |                                                                                                                                              | • Number of charging columns/<br>charging points           | 23          | 15          | Increase                           |
| Suppliers   | We want to increase transparency<br>in our supply chain in order to<br>guarantee the protection of<br>human rights and the environment       | • CSR rate²                                                | 51.4 %      | 49.0 %      | 50 % by 2025                       |
|             |                                                                                                                                              |                                                            |             |             |                                    |

¹ Diversity rate: average percentage of the number of managers with an international background as well as female managers

² CSR rate: Corporate Social Responsibility Rate: percentage of all suppliers of production materials with an annual purchasing volume in excess of 200,000 euros for which complete CSR self-

assessments assessed as non-critical exist

³ Main sites: are responsible for more than 98 percent of the Jenoptik Group's total energy consumption

Since 2021, the group-wide recording of all key performance indicators (KPIs) for sustainability reporting has been carried out quarterly as part of the existing LucaNet financial reporting system. The creation of a uniform reporting process guarantees the provision of regular information to the boards as well as the management of these KPIs.

## Page 138

Management Combined Management Report Remuneration Report Non-financial Report Consolidated

Financial Statements

# Risks in Connection with Non-financial Aspects

Weighing up corporate risks and opportunities is one of Jenoptik's principles of responsible corporate governance. The Group has a risk manual and a system of guidelines, thus providing a reliable reference framework for all employees worldwide.

See Corporate Governance Statement from page 94 on

In two risk periods per year, Compliance & Risk Management identifies all risks within the Group and discusses the top issues – set in net terms – with the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. Our processes for the identification, management, and control of risks involve non-financial environmental, social, and corporate governance risks, including climate-related risks in the form of physical risks. These result from the physical effects of climate change, e.g. plant damage due to extreme weather events or losses due to long periods of drought.

The net analysis did not identify any risks that are very likely, now or in the future, to have a serious negative impact on the specified key non-financial aspects.

Detailed information on the risk management system as well as risks associated with non-financial aspects, can be found in the Risk and Opportunity Report from page 72 on

## Employees

HR at Jenoptik covers all employee-related operating and strategic measures for the implementation of the Group's objectives and is thus an essential component of the overall leadership and management process. The HR department globally provides governance for the most important HR processes and offers local service on site in the respective country for all employees and managers. It provides local HR teams with support for division-specific projects and central expert knowledge in the areas of recruiting, HR development, compensation & benefits, health management, and supporting HR systems. The HR department reports directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board, who is also HR Director, via the function Head of Global HR.

Our colleagues from the dedicated HR support team are the first point of contact for all HR-related issues in day-today business concerning the Group's employees and managers. Each division and business unit has an HR Business Partner who is part of the management team. Working with division management, the HR Business Partners develop and implement HR strategic topics. SuccessFactors as a new complete solution for the Human Experience Management (HXM) supports all HR processes in digital form.

Jenoptik's corporate culture is characterized by initiative, respect for diversity, and equal opportunities. The basis for this is formed by our Jenoptik values – open, driving, confident.

For further information on the topic of corporate culture, please refer to the Strategy chapter from page 32 on

We have continued to pursue our diversity initiatives. The focus was on internal communication and our external "Stay open" campaign. Increasing the diversity rate, calculated as the average percentage of managers with an international background and female managers, to 33 percent by 2025 is therefore a key objective of the Group. In the fiscal year 2023, the diversity rate was 29.4 percent (prior year: 30.6 percent). Detailed information on gender equality and targets for the proportion of women on the Supervisory Board, Executive Board, and the management level below the Executive Board can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement.

## Page 139

Our regional diversity councils have supported us in our activities, promoting implementation in the various countries. For external benchmarking, we once again took part in the Women's Career Index (FKI) audit, scoring 86 (out of 100) in 2023, three percentage points better than in the prior year.

Jenoptik promotes equal pay in the workplace and ensures comparability and fairness through a group-wide uniform, person-independent assessment of all jobs. Using a standardized software solution, jobs will be continuously classified in terms of requirements, tasks, and responsibilities. In all divisions or areas of activity, new jobs undergo a structured classification process. This counteracts gender-specific salary differences for comparable activities.

We have measured the satisfaction and commitment of our employees using an employee survey. This is carried out annually worldwide. When completing the survey, employees evaluate the various facets of the corporate and leadership culture. The commitment of our employees (so-called Engagement Score) and the recommendation rate (so-called Net Promoter Score) are also measured.

A total of 69 percent of our employees took part in the 2023 survey (prior year: 63 percent). The engagement score was 75 percent, i.e. 75 percent of the employees who took part in the survey positively identify with their duties at Jenoptik and actively contribute (prior year: 76 percent). With a "Net Promoter Score" of 72 percent (prior year: 74 percent) more than two thirds of the participating employees would recommend Jenoptik as a good employer.

Jenoptik is family-friendly and responds to the needs of its employees with flexible working hour models. Flextime, part-time work, and flexible parental leave all make it easier for our employees to strike their own balance between family and working life. In 2023, 155 employees made use of parental leave in Germany (prior year: 165 employees). The number of part-time contracts in Germany rose to 15.1 percent in 2023 and, globally, 11.4 percent of our employees are part-time workers (prior year: 13.3 percent in Germany and 10.6 percent worldwide). In 2023, the global employee turnover rate was 5.8 percent (prior year: 7.1 percent). The target for employee-related turnover was adjusted from <5% to <=10 percent in the reporting year due to changes in market trends. The aim is to keep staff turnover within the target corridor, among other things through training and promotions as well as the associated internal communication.

One of the most important preconditions for balancing career and family is the availability of childcare. For several years, Jenoptik has been investing in flexible childcare models at daycare centers at the Jena, Wedel, and Monheim sites. This means that our employees are assured a fixed quota of places at the daycare centers.

HR development is a key factor that determines the future viability of the company and the commitment of our employees. To help promote them in line with their potential and interests, the development needs are analyzed in regular staff appraisals. In 2023, Jenoptik invested around 2.9 million euros (prior year: 2.7 million euros) in the professional development of its employees. This includes both the costs for trainees and students at the Cooperative State Universities and the costs for further training for our employees.

Learning at Jenoptik is structured according to the 70:20:10 principle: as employees and their supervisors are the experts for their own further development, 70 percent of learning takes place in the workplace and 20 percent through learning from others. Classroom or online training makes up 10 percent.

We have also been following the 70:20:10 learning principle in the development of our managers: there are three target-group specific programs aimed at potential employees or new and experienced managers. We will again offer training in healthy management and conflict management for our experienced managers in 2024.

## Page 140

# HR Recruitment

Management Report

Jenoptik's personnel requirements are aligned with the Group's growth strategy. As a result of this and due to staff turnover, there is a greater need for recruitment, particularly in Germany, Canada and the USA. The target groups for recruitment and thus also HR marketing are primarily junior employees, specialists, and skilled workers in the natural and engineering sciences.

In order to fill more vacant positions with internal specialists trained at Jenoptik, the training ratio was increased, taking into account the retirement of employees in the context of succession planning. In the reporting period, the training rate was 3.5 percent (prior year: 3.5 percent). Thus, at the end of 2023, a total of 163 trainees were employed by the Group worldwide (prior year 154 worldwide). The retention rate for trainees who successfully completed their vocational training in 2023 was 88.0 percent (prior year: 83.8 percent). These trainees were taken on for an unlimited period by the company.

Specific support for school students, university students, and graduates is part of the Group's expertise strategy, ensuring early loyalty to the company and thus making the recruitment process easier. A selection of targeted initiatives and cooperation arrangements is shown in the following table T52:

| Jenoptik supports   | • career guidance projects at schools, also offering their students the opportunity to complete<br>an internship                                                             |
|---------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                     | • young researchers in Thuringia as a longstanding state-level corporate sponsor of the<br>"Jugend forscht" initiative                                                       |
|                     | • various industry organizations to promote professional development activities                                                                                              |
|                     | • students in the form of degree theses, internships, and scholarships                                                                                                       |
| Jenoptik works with | • selected universities around the world with regards to HR marketing and recruitment, for<br>research purposes, and to foster the professional development of its employees |
|                     | • selected universities around the world via projects and is active through a range of committees<br>and networks in an advisory capacity                                    |

Further information on our social commitment can be found in the section "Social commitment" from page 147 on

Increasing attractiveness as an employer is the focus of employer branding at Jenoptik. Clear and distinctive positioning as an attractive employer should support recruitment and develop a positive and unmistakable employer image as a future-oriented, innovative high-tech company in the photonics industry. Social media channels as well as training and university fairs are used for this purpose.

Occupational health and safety are also key topics affecting the basic needs of our employees and their satisfaction in the workplace. They are firmly anchored in the Group's operating processes to minimize risks arising in the work environment, work processes as well as work and operating equipment, that may endanger employees. Their principles apply to all Jenoptik employees. The Jenoptik companies are each responsible for applying the law on all aspects of occupational health and safety. Occupational health and safety and environmental protection issues are the responsibility of the Executive Board. Managers are advised and supported by occupational safety specialists and company physicians. They provide advice to all companies, coordinate tasks and support the Executive Board in implementing measures. Occupational health and safety committee meetings are held in all divisions each quarter. In addition, all employees are briefed on issues relating to occupational health and safety at least once a year. At all the German locations, around ten percent of the workforce are trained as first-aiders. In 2023, the number of reportable workplace and commuting accidents in Germany was 11.6 per 1,000 employees (prior year: 9.9). For the Group as a whole, the rate of workplace accidents (excluding commuting accidents) was 5.5 (prior year: 4.3). Compared to the

## Page 150

#### Further Information

## Compliance in the supply chain

Management Combined

Management Report

Compliance in the supply chain is guided by our aspiration to always comply with statutes, internal regulations, and voluntary commitments. In order to further increase transparency in the supply chain, identify compliance violations in good time, and initiate suitable measures to minimize risks, we subject our supplier base to regular risk analyses. For all suppliers with a significant purchasing volume or an increased risk, surveys are conducted on ESG issues such as environmental protection, compliance management, human rights, and the prohibition of child labor, ensuring health and safety, as well as anti-corruption and sustainability. In the event of violations, or where there is potential for improvement, the causes are determined in dialog with the suppliers and joint action plans for improvement are developed and implemented. The Corporate Social Responsibility Rate (CSR rate), indicates the percentage of suppliers of production materials with an annual purchasing volume in excess of 200,000 euros for which completed CSR self-assessments evaluated as non-critical exist. In 2023, the CSR rate was 49.0 percent (prior year: 51.4 percent). The target level for the CSR rate is 50 percent by 2025.

A further target in the year covered by the report was to fulfill the first reporting requirements for the creation of a Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM). Continuous implementation takes place with the help of a time and action plan drawn up in the year covered by the report.

## Quality Management

#### Quality management

The key to Jenoptik's success as a technology company primarily lies in the quality of its components, products, and solutions. Longstanding collaborations with key customers, sometimes in the form of development partnerships, and the confidence placed in us by our partners are proof that our products and solutions are convincing in their quality worldwide. We are committed to actively ensuring that the quality of our products and services is above average in all of our product areas. For more than 30 years, Jenoptik has been a member of the German Association for Quality (DGQ e.V.).

Quality management at Jenoptik is managed locally in the business units and falls within the responsibility of the division managers. Each division applies individual customer and market-related quality indicators. The following overview summarizes essential Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for quality management in the Jenoptik Group. The Jenoptik Business System (JBS) was established group-wide to support the divisional QM system in 2022.

| Criterion                                 | Examples for KPIs of the divisions                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Quality from a customer perspective       | • Customer satisfaction<br>• Complaints costs ratio<br>• Guarantee and warranty costs<br>• Delivery reliability                                                                                                                                          |
| Quality as an internal operations partner | • Internal audits (number of improvements)<br>• Measures in the process of continual improvement (number)<br>• Process and product quality<br>– Production yield/quality level<br>– Reworking costs<br>– Scrap costs<br>• Policy Deployment Matrix (PDM) |
| Quality from the supplier's perspective   | • External supplier audits (number of improvements)<br>• Suitable suppliers (number)<br>• Complaints ratio<br>• Complaints costs<br>• Guarantee and warranty costs<br>• Delivery reliability                                                             |

## Page 151

Measures to ensure and further improve our quality are our process optimizations (Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) and lean cycles), which have a positive impact in all areas – from the development of new products via quality planning to the quality of the finished product (safe launch). The international quality, environmental protection, and occupational health and safety programs were developed on the basis of the Jenoptik and divisional strategies. 2023 saw the implementation of additional modules for computer-aided quality assurance, such as audit and test equipment management for more efficient planning, execution and evaluation of business processes at individual locations. The Smart Mobility Solutions division also set up a "Supplier Quality Development Area" to have a preventative effect on the quality of purchased parts. Currently, the focus is on the further development and improvement of the SAP system, such as integration of a module for product compliance.

Our group companies comply with the requirements of the ISO 9001 quality management standard. Continuous optimization and standardization of processes are among the core tasks of our quality management system. Through dialog with our customers, we are able to align our activities with market requirements.

Selected companies meet the requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental management system. In 2023, another company, JENOPTIK Automatisierungstechnik GmbH in Jena, was certified in accordance with ISO 14001.

Table T59 shows the certifications held by the Group. In 2023, the Advanced Photonic Solutions division successfully passed the multi-site certification in accordance with the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards for quality and environmental management for several sites. Similarly, some manufacturing sites have obtained ISO 13485 (medical) certification. In all audits, the auditors from the DQS (Deutschen Gesellschaft zur Zertifizierung von Managementsystemen) and TÜV Rhineland positively highlighted in particular the further development of the quality and environmental management system, the high degree of integration of environmental topics into company processes, and the large number of improvement measures planned and implemented. In addition, they certified that the employees have a very high level of qualification. In the fall, the production area at the Shanghai and Wuhan sites successfully passed an ISO 9001 audit by the DQS.

The Smart Mobility Solutions division has also been successful with regard to certifications. Environmentally compatible action is one of the top priorities here. For this reason, environmental management in accordance with ISO 14001 was integrated into the management system for the first time as part of the re-certification of ISO 9001 and successfully certified.

The newly created integrated management system for JENOPTIK Industrial Metrology Germany GmbH was further expanded and recertified in 2023 (ISO 9001/ISO 14001/ISO 45001). In addition, a calibration laboratory was newly accredited. JENOPTIK Industrial Metrology Germany GmbH began the TISAX certification process in 2023 and will complete it in 2024.

## Page 152

| Management | Combined<br>Management Report | Remuneration Report | Non-financial Report | Consolidated<br>Financial Statements | Further Information |
|------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|
|------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|

| T59 Certification in the Group        |                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Certification                         | Description                                                                                                                | Division and company                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ISO 9001                              | Certification of quality management processes                                                                              | • Advanced Photonic Solutions:<br>JENOPTIK Optical Systems GmbH, JENOPTIK Optical<br>Systems, LLC; JENOPTIK (Shanghai) Precision Instrument<br>and Equipment Co., Ltd.; JENOPTIK (Shanghai) Precision<br>Instruments and Equipment Co., Ltd.<br>• Smart Mobility Solutions: JENOPTIK Robot GmbH,<br>JENOPTIK UK Ltd, Traffipax, LLC<br>• Non-Photonic Portfolio Companies:<br>JENOPTIK Industrial Metrology Germany GmbH |
| ISO 13485<br>EN ISO 13485             | Certification for the medical market<br>with respect to the<br>design, development, and<br>manufacture of medical products | • Advanced Photonic Solutions:<br>JENOPTIK Optical Systems GmbH,<br>JENOPTIK Optical Systems, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ISO 14001                             | Certification for the environmental<br>management system                                                                   | • Advanced Photonic Solutions:<br>JENOPTIK Optical Systems GmbH<br>• Smart Mobility Solutions: JENOPTIK Robot GmbH,<br>JENOPTIK UK Ltd.<br>• Non-Photonic Portfolio Companies:<br>JENOPTIK Industrial Metrology Germany GmbH                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ISO/IEC 17025<br>DIN EN ISO/IEC 17025 | Accreditation of the calibration<br>laboratory                                                                             | • Non-photonic portfolio companies:<br>JENOPTIK Industrial Metrology Germany GmbH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ISO 27001                             | Provision, support, and maintenance<br>of traffic control systems, civil security,<br>and smart mobility solutions         | • Smart Mobility Solutions:<br>JENOPTIK UK Ltd, JENOPTIK Benelux B.V.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| AEO-F                                 | Customs law simplification and<br>security                                                                                 | • Smart Mobility Solutions: JENOPTIK Robot GmbH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DIN EN 16247-1                        | Energy audit to increase energy<br>efficiency                                                                              | • Certification with the new scope of JENOPTIK Industrial<br>Metrology Germany GmbH, Villingen-Schwenningen site                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| NLF/ILO-OSH 2001,<br>ISO 45001        | Certification of occupational safety<br>and health management                                                              | • Non-Photonic Portfolio Companies: JENOPTIK Industrial<br>Metrology Germany GmbH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

# Information on the EU Taxonomy Regulation

With the taxonomy regulations, the EU Commission has defined uniform standards for ecological management and specifies, among other things, when an economic activity is to be classified as ecologically sustainable. The aim is to increase the transparency of the sustainability level of companies and to direct the flow of more money into sustainable investments in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. In accordance with Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the Jenoptik Group also fulfills the transparency requirements to ensure transition to a climate-neutral, resourceefficient, and circular economy for the long-term competitiveness of the EU.

After considering the taxonomy eligibility and alignment for the taxonomy environmental objectives (1) "Climate protection" and (2) "Adaptation to climate change" in the fiscal year 2022, the taxonomy eligibility for the environmental objectives (3) "Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources", (4) "Transition to a circular economy", (5) "Prevention and reduction of pollution", and (6) "Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems" is also to be reported for the fiscal year 2023. Due to the extended scope of the reporting obligations as a result of environmental goals 3 – 6 and the selective revision and expansion of the economic activities of the environmental objectives 1 - 2, a screening of all key activities of the Jenoptik Group was carried out again in 2023. As a result, it was determined that Jenoptik's business activities relate in particular to environmental objective (4) "Transition to a circular economy". Specifically, the following business activities of the Jenoptik Group listed in Annex II of the environmental act are classified as taxonomy-eligible: CE 1.2. Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (including measuring and testing systems, traffic monitoring systems and infrared cameras); CE 5.1. Repair, refurbishment, and remanufacturing; CE 5.2. Sale of spare parts; CE 5.3. Sale of second-hand goods as well as CE 5.5. Products-as-a-service and other circular

## Page 153

use-and result-oriented service models (among other things Traffic Service Provision). Individual investments and operating expenditure also affect the environmental objective (1) Climate protection.

Another prerequisite for taxonomy alignment is the verification of the essential contribution and of the "Do no significant harm" (DNSH) requirements, i.e. the economic activity must not significantly impair any other environmental objective. In order to comply with the "Minimum Safeguards", the minimum (social) protection requirements must also be fulfilled and international human rights standards and regulations on issues such as bribery and corruption, taxation, and fair competition must be complied with.

Jenoptik invests in sustainability, thereby also contributing to environmental protection and resource conservation. Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure as well as operating expenditure as per Annex I of climate law act within the scope of business activities CCM 6.5 "Transportation by car and light commercial vehicles", CCM 7.1 "Construction of new buildings" and CCM 7.3 "Installation, maintenance, and repair of energy efficiency equipment", 7.4. "Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and in parking lots belonging to buildings)", and CCM 7.5 "Installation, maintenance, and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation, and controlling energy performance of buildings", were made in the year covered by the report. The composition of the revenue, CapEx, and OpEx KPIs is explained below.

The tables T60 – T63 at the end of the Non-financial Report show an overview of the key performance indicators (KPIs) to be disclosed.

The revenue was determined in accordance with the requirements of the delegated act on the reporting obligations. In order to determine Jenoptik's taxonomy-eligible revenue, the first step was to analyze the product portfolio and the revenue generated in the year covered by the report to determine what proportion of this relates to taxonomy-eligible business activities. In order to avoid double counting, only external revenue was taken into account and each product or product group was allocated exclusively to one business activity.

The taxonomy-eligible revenue (numerator) determined in this way was compared to the total revenue (denominator) The group revenue was 1,066.0 million euros in 2023. The revenue from taxonomy-eligible business activities was 412.1 million euros (prior year: 0 million euros), which equates to 38.7 percent of the total revenue.

The audit of revenue for taxonomy alignment with regard to the taxonomy-eligible business activities from environmental objective (4) "Change to a circular economy" is carried out in accordance with the reporting obligation for fiscal year 2024 in the Annual Report 2024.

The capital expenditure (CapEx) was determined in accordance with the requirements of the delegated act on the reporting obligations. In order to determine Jenoptik's taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure, the first step was to analyze the additions to property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets in the year covered by the report to determine what proportion of these relate to the acquisition of products from taxonomy-eligible business activities and individual measures (numerator). If capital expenditure for certain business activities could not be derived, an allocation key was used. The taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure determined in this way was set in proportion to the total capital expenditure reported in the Notes (denominator).

Detailed information on the asset position can be found in the Management Report starting on page 46 and in the notes 5.1 and 5.2 starting on page 196

Additions to property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and right-of-use assets amounted to 110.4 million euros in 2023 (prior year: 106.0 million euros). In 2023, the Jenoptik Group invested a total of 41.1 million euros (prior year: 10.2 million euros) in the acquisition of products from taxonomy-eligible business activities comprised, which equates to 37.3 percent of the total investment volume. Capital expenditure that serves the environmental objective of (1) climate protection was also checked for alignment. This includes, for example, construction of the high-tech fab in Dresden, investment in energy-efficient equipment, renewable energy technologies, and vehicle leasing. To verify the taxonomy alignment of energy-efficient equipment, the suppliers of the relevant equipment were contacted. Ultimately, not all evidence could be provided, so that there were no taxonomy-aligned investments.

## Page 154

The determination of the operating expenditure (OpEx) was carried out in accordance with Article 8, item 1.1.3. of delegated act on the reporting obligations. As for capital expenditure, in order to determine taxonomy-eligible operating expenditure, the expenditure in the year covered by the report was analyzed in a first step to determine what proportion of this relates to direct, non-capitalized costs for research and development, building renovation measures, shortterm leasing, maintenance and repairs as well as all other direct expenditure in connection with the daily maintenance of fixed assets (numerator). If operating expenditure for certain business activities could not be derived, an allocation key was used. The total operating expenditure identified by the taxonomy (denominator) amounted to 86.3 million euros (prior year: 79.7 million euros). In 2023, the Jenoptik Group's operating expenditure from taxonomy-eligible business activities totaled 37.6 million euros (prior year: 0 million euros), which equates to 43.6 percent of the total operating expenditure. Operating expenditure that serves the environmental objectives of (1) "Climate protection" and (2) "Adaptation to climate change" was also checked for alignment. These include, for example, opex in connection with the maintenance and repair of energy-efficient equipment and equipment for regulating overall energy efficiency.

Ultimately, not all evidence could be provided, so that there is no taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure.

Jenoptik is not involved in any economic activity related to energy production from fossil gas or nuclear energy and therefore does not provide the specific reporting forms for these activities.

## Page 155

#### T60 Share of revenue from goods or services related to taxonomy-aligned business activities - disclosure for 2023

| Details in thousand euros                                                                                                            |          |                                                           | Substantial contribution criteria              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                              | Code (2) | Absolute<br>turnover (3)                                  | Proportion<br>of turnover,<br>year 2023<br>(4) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollu-<br>tion (9)                            | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitiga-<br>tion (11)     | Climate<br>change<br>adapta-<br>tion (12) | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>re-<br>sources<br>(13) | Circular<br>econo-<br>my (14) | Pollu-<br>tion (15) | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(16) | Min-<br>imum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Portion<br>of taxo-<br>nomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>turnover,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18) | Cate-<br>gory<br>en-<br>abling<br>activity<br>(19) | Cate-<br>gory<br>transi-<br>tional<br>activity<br>(20) |  |
|                                                                                                                                      |          | Currency<br>Thousand<br>euros                             | %                                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                               | Y;N; N/EL                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                        | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                       | Y/N                                              | Y/N                           | Y/N                 | Y/N                                                 | Y/N                                     | %                                                                                                              | E                                                  | T                                                      |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities<br>A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                    |          |                                                           |                                                |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Turnover of environ-<br>mentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-<br>aligned) (A.1)                                              |          | 0                                                         | 0 %                                            | 0 %                                    | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                          | -                                             | -                                                   |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                                    |          | 0                                                         | 0 %                                            | 0 %                                    | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                          | -                                             | -                                                   |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                                |          | 0                                                         | 0 %                                            | 0 %                                    |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned activities)                               |          |                                                           |                                                | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                                | EL; N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL                                   | EL;<br>N/EL                                         |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Manufacture of electrical<br>and electronic equipment                                                                                | CE 1.2   | 254,014                                                   | 23.8 %                                         | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                                            | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                              |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Repair, refurbishment<br>and remanufacturing                                                                                         | CE 5.1   | 53,732                                                    | 5.0 %                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                                            | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                              |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                                                  | CE 5.2   | 81,689                                                    | 7.7 %                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                                            | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                              |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Sale of second-hand<br>goods                                                                                                         | CE 5.4   | 926                                                       | 0.1 %                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                                            | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                              |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Product-as-a-service and<br>other circular use- and<br>result-oriented service<br>models                                             |          |                                                           |                                                |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
|                                                                                                                                      | CE 5.5   | 21,760                                                    | 2.0 %                                          | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                                            | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                              |                                                    |                                                        |  |
|                                                                                                                                      |          | Management                                                |                                                | Combined<br>Management Report          |                                        | Remuneration Report                     |                            | Non-financial Report                          |                                                     | Consolidated<br>Financial Statements          |                                           | Further Information                              |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Details in thousand euros                                                                                                            |          |                                                           |                                                | Substantial contribution criteria      |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                              | Code (2) | Absolute<br>turnover (3)<br>Currency<br>Thousand<br>euros | Proportion<br>of turnover<br>(4)               | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollu-<br>tion (9)                            | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitiga-<br>tion (11)     | Climate<br>change<br>adapta-<br>tion (12) | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>re-<br>sources<br>(13) | Circular<br>econo-<br>my (14) | Pollu-<br>tion (15) | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(16) | Mini-<br>mum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Portion<br>of taxo-<br>nomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>turnover,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18) | Cate-<br>gory<br>en-<br>abling<br>activity<br>(19) | Cate-<br>gory<br>transi-<br>tional<br>activity<br>(20) |  |
|                                                                                                                                      |          |                                                           | %                                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                               | Y;N; N/EL                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                        | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                       | Y/N                                              | Y/N                           | Y/N                 | Y/N                                                 | Y/N                                     | %                                                                                                              | E                                                  |                                                        |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy-<br>eligible but not<br>environmentally<br>sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned<br>activities) (A.2) |          | 412,122                                                   | 38.7 %                                         | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 38.7 %                     | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                               |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0.0 %                                                                                                          |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| A. Turnover of<br>taxonomy-eligible<br>activities (A.1+A.2)                                                                          |          | 412,122                                                   | 38.7 %                                         | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 38.7 %                     | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                               |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0.0 %                                                                                                          |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                                  |          |                                                           |                                                |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Turnover of taxonomy<br>non-eligible activities                                                                                      |          | 653,927                                                   | 61.3 %                                         |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |
| Total                                                                                                                                |          | 1,066,048                                                 | 100.0 %                                        |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                                |                                                    |                                                        |  |

## Page 156

Abbreviations: N/EL - non eligible/eligible, Y/N - Yes/No

## Page 157

#### T61 CapEx share of goods or services associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities - disclosure for 2023

| Details in thousand euros                                                                              |          |                               |                            |                                        | Substantial contribution criteria      |                                         |                            |                    |                                                     | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                | Code (2) | Absolute<br>Capex (3)         | Proportion<br>of Capex (4) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollu-<br>tion (9) | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitiga-<br>tion (11)     | Climate<br>change<br>adapta-<br>tion (12) | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>re-<br>sources<br>(13) | Circular<br>econo-<br>my (14) | Pollu-<br>tion (15) | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(16) | Mini-<br>mum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Portion<br>of taxo-<br>nomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18) | Cate-<br>gory<br>en<br>abling<br>activity<br>(19) | Cate-<br>gory<br>transi<br>tional<br>activity<br>(20) |
|                                                                                                        |          | Currency<br>Thousand<br>euros |                            |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            | Y;N;<br>N/EL       | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                        |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
|                                                                                                        |          |                               | %                          | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                               | Y;N; N/EL                  |                    |                                                     | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                       | Y/N                                              | Y/N                           | Y/N                 | Y/N                                                 | Y/N                                     | %                                                                                                           | E                                                 | T                                                     |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                        |          |                               |                            |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                    |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                         |          |                               |                            |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                    |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
| CapEx of environmen-<br>tally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-<br>aligned) (A.1)                   |          | 0                             | 0 %                        | 0 %                                    | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                          | -                  | -                                                   |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                         |                                                   |                                                       |
| Of which enabling                                                                                      |          | 0                             | 0 %                        | 0 %                                    | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                          | -                  | -                                                   |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                         |                                                   |                                                       |
| Of which transitional                                                                                  |          | 0                             | 0 %                        | 0 %                                    |                                        |                                         |                            |                    |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                         |                                                   |                                                       |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not-taxonomy-aligned activities) |          |                               |                            |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                    |                                                     |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
|                                                                                                        |          |                               |                            | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL                                | EL; N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL        | EL;<br>N/EL                                         |                                               |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                             |                                                   |                                                       |
| Manufacture of electrical<br>and electronic equipment                                                  | CE 1.2   | 6,376                         | 5.8 %                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                 | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                           |                                                   |                                                       |
| Repair, refurbishment<br>and remanufacturing                                                           | CE 5.1   | 823                           | 0.7 %                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                 | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                           |                                                   |                                                       |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                    | CE 5.2   | 4,103                         | 3.7 %                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                 | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                           |                                                   |                                                       |
| Sale of second-hand<br>goods                                                                           | CE 5.4   | 35                            | 0.0 %                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                 | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                           |                                                   |                                                       |
| Product-as-a-service and<br>other circular use- and<br>result-oriented service<br>models               | CE 5.5   | 5,111                         | 4.6 %                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | EL                 | N/EL                                                | N/EL                                          |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | -                                                                                                           |                                                   |                                                       |

## Page 158

| Management | Combined          | Remuneration Report | Non-financial Report | Consolidated         | Further Information |
|------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------|----------------------|---------------------|
|            | Management Report |                     |                      | Financial Statements |                     |

| Details in thousand euros                                                                                                         | Substantial contribution criteria |                               |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                           | Code (2)                          | Absolute<br>Capex (3)         | Proportion<br>of Capex (4)        | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5)    | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8)                    | Pollution (9)                                 | Biodiversity<br>and<br>eco-systems<br>(10)        | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)  | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12)  | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13)     | Circular<br>economy<br>(14)  | Pollution (15)     | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(16)         | Minimum<br>safeguards<br>(17)         | Portion<br>of taxonomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18)    | Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>(19)         | Category<br>transitional<br>activity<br>(20)         |  |
|                                                                                                                                   |                                   | Currency<br>Thousand<br>euros | %                                 | Y;N; N/EL                                 | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                               | Y;N; N/EL                                     | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                      | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                             | Y/N                          | Y/N                | Y/N                                               | Y/N                                   | %                                                                                                         | E                                                | T                                                    |  |
| Transport by motorbikes,<br>passenger cars and light<br>commercial vehicles                                                       | CCM 6.5                           | 2,880                         | 2.6 %                             | EL                                        | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 1.5 %                                                                                                     |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Construction of new<br>buildings                                                                                                  | CCM 7.1/<br>CE 3.1                | 21,698                        | 19.7 %                            | EL                                        | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 6.5 %                                                                                                     |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Installation, maintenance<br>and repair of energy<br>efficiency equipment                                                         | CCM 7.3                           | 106                           | 0.1 %                             | EL                                        | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 1.6 %                                                                                                     |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| CapEx of taxonomy-<br>eligible but not<br>environmentally<br>sustainable activities<br>(not-taxonomy-aligned<br>activities) (A.2) |                                   | 41,131                        | 37.3 %                            | 22.4 %                                    | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 14.9 %                                        | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                             |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 9.6 %                                                                                                     |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| A. CapEx of taxonomy-<br>eligible activities<br>(A.1+A.2)                                                                         |                                   | 41,131                        | 37.3 %                            | 22.4 %                                    | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 14.9 %                                        | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                             |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                               |                                   |                               |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| CapEx of taxonomy-<br>non-eligible activities                                                                                     |                                   | 69,234                        | 62.7 %                            |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Total                                                                                                                             |                                   | 110,365                       | 100.0 %                           |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Details in thousand euros                                                                                                         |                                   |                               | Substantial contribution criteria |                                           |                                        |                                         | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                           | Code (2)                          | Absolute<br>OpEx (3)          | Proportion<br>of OpEx (4)         | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5)    | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8)                    | Pollu<br>tion (9)                             | Bio<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys<br>tems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitiga<br>tion (11) | Climate<br>change<br>adapta<br>tion (12) | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>re<br>sources<br>(13) | Circular<br>econo<br>my (14) | Pollu<br>tion (15) | Bio<br>diversity<br>and<br>eco<br>systems<br>(16) | Mini<br>mum<br>safe<br>guards<br>(17) | Portion<br>of taxo<br>nomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>OpEx,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18) | Cate<br>gory<br>en<br>abling<br>activity<br>(19) | Cate<br>gory<br>transi<br>tional<br>activity<br>(20) |  |
|                                                                                                                                   |                                   | Currency<br>Thousand          |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               | Y;N;                                          | Y;N;                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
|                                                                                                                                   |                                   | euros                         |                                   | % Y;N; N/EL Y;N; N/EL Y;N; N/EL Y;N; N/EL |                                        |                                         |                                               | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                      | Y/N                                             | Y/N                          | Y/N                | Y/N                                               | Y/N                                   | %                                                                                                         | E                                                | T                                                    |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                                   |                                   |                               |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                                    |                                   |                               |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| OpEx of environmentally<br>sustainable activities<br>(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                     |                                   | 0                             | 0 %                               | 0 %                                       | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                                             | -                                             | -                                                 |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 0 %                                                                                                       |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                                 |                                   | 0                             | 0 %                               | 0 %                                       | 0 %                                    | -                                       | -                                             | -                                             | -                                                 |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 0 %                                                                                                       |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                             |                                   | 0                             | 0 %                               | 0 %                                       |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | 0 %                                                                                                       |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned activities)                            |                                   |                               |                                   |                                           |                                        |                                         |                                               |                                               |                                                   |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
|                                                                                                                                   |                                   |                               |                                   | J;N; N/EL                                 | J;N; N/EL                              | J;N; N/EL                               | J;N; N/EL                                     | J;N;<br>N/EL                                  | J;N;<br>N/EL                                      |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       |                                                                                                           |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Manufacture of electrical<br>and electronic equipment                                                                             | CE 1.2                            | 25,933                        | 30.1 %                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | -                                                                                                         |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Repair, refurbishment<br>and remanufacturing                                                                                      | CE 5.1                            | 3,713                         | 4.3 %                             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | -                                                                                                         |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Sale of spare parts                                                                                                               | CE 5.2                            | 4,162                         | 4.8 %                             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | -                                                                                                         |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Sale of second-hand<br>goods                                                                                                      | CE 5.4                            | 197                           | 0.2 %                             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | -                                                                                                         |                                                  |                                                      |  |
| Product-as-a-service and<br>other circular use- and<br>result-oriented service<br>models                                          | CE 5.5                            | 3,144                         | 3.6 %                             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | EL                                            | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                              |                                          |                                          |                                                 |                              |                    |                                                   |                                       | -                                                                                                         |                                                  |                                                      |  |

Abbreviations: N/EL - non eligible/eligible, Y/N - Yes/No

## Page 159

#### T62 OpEx share of goods or services associated with taxonomy-aligned business activities - disclosure for 2023

## Page 160

| Management | Combined          | Remuneration Report | Non-financial Report | Consolidated         | Further Information |
|------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------|----------------------|---------------------|
|            | Management Report |                     |                      | Financial Statements |                     |

| Details in thousand euros                                                                                                                                |          |                               |                           | Substantial contribution criteria      |                                        |                                         |                            | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                                                     |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                                  | Code (2) | Absolute<br>OpEx (3)          | Proportion<br>of OpEx (4) | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Circular<br>economy<br>(8) | Pollu-<br>tion (9)                            | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>ecosys-<br>tems<br>(10) | Climate<br>change<br>mitiga-<br>tion (11) | Climate<br>change<br>adapta-<br>tion (12) | Water<br>and<br>marine<br>re-<br>sources<br>(13) | Circular<br>econo-<br>my (14) | Pollu-<br>tion (15) | Bio-<br>diversity<br>and<br>eco-<br>systems<br>(16) | Mini-<br>mum<br>safe-<br>guards<br>(17) | Portion<br>of taxo-<br>nomy<br>aligned<br>(A.1.) or<br>eligible<br>(A.2.)<br>OpEx,<br>year<br>2022<br>(18) | Cate-<br>gory<br>en-<br>abling<br>activity<br>(19) | Cate-<br>gory<br>trans-<br>itional<br>activity<br>(20) |
|                                                                                                                                                          |          | Currency<br>Thousand<br>euros | %                         | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                              | Y;N; N/EL                               | Y;N; N/EL                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                  | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                        | Y/N                                       | Y/N                                       | Y/N                                              | Y/N                           | Y/N                 | Y/N                                                 | Y/N                                     | % E                                                                                                        |                                                    |                                                        |
| Transport by motorbikes,<br>passenger cars and light<br>commercial vehicles                                                                              | CCM 6.5  | 266                           | 0.3 %                     | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                                |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                        |                                                    |                                                        |
| Installation, maintenance<br>and repair of energy<br>efficiency equipment                                                                                | CCM 7.3  | 197                           | 0.2 %                     | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                                |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                        |                                                    |                                                        |
| Installation, maintenance<br>and repair of instruments<br>and devices for measuring,<br>regulation and controlling<br>energy performance of<br>buildings | CCM 7.5  | 25                            | 0.0 %                     | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                                                |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                        |                                                    |                                                        |
| OpEx of taxonomy-eligi<br>ble but not environmen<br>tally sustainable activi<br>ties (not taxonomy-<br>aligned activities) (A.2)                         |          | 37,638                        | 43.6 %                    | 0.6 %                                  | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 43.1 %                     | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                               |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         | 0 %                                                                                                        |                                                    |                                                        |
| A. OpEx of taxonomy<br>eligible activities (A.1+A.2)                                                                                                     |          | 37,638                        | 43.6 %                    | 0.6 %                                  | 0.0 %                                  | 0.0 %                                   | 43.1 %                     | 0.0 %                                         | 0.0 %                                               |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                                                      |          |                               |                           |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |
| OpEx of taxonomy-non<br>eligible activities                                                                                                              |          | 48,653                        | 56.4 %                    |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |
| Total                                                                                                                                                    |          | 86,290                        | 100.0 %                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                            |                                               |                                                     |                                           |                                           |                                                  |                               |                     |                                                     |                                         |                                                                                                            |                                                    |                                                        |

Abbreviations: N/EL - non eligible/eligible, Y/N - Yes/No

## Page 161

#### Combined Non-financial Report

#### T63 Revenue share/total revenue

|     | Taxonomy-aligned per target | Taxonomy-eligible per target |
|-----|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| CCM | 0 %                         | 0 %                          |
| CCA | 0 %                         | 0 %                          |
| WTR | -                           | 0 %                          |
| CE  | -                           | 38.7 %                       |
| PPC | -                           | 0 %                          |
| BIO | -                           | 0 %                          |

Abbreviations: CCM – Climate Change Mitigation, CCA – Climate change Adaption, WTR – Water, CE – Circular Economy. PPC – Pollution Prevention and Control, BIO – Biodiversity and ecosystems

#### T64 CapEx share/total CapEx

|     | Taxonomy-aligned per target | Taxonomy-eligible per target |
|-----|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| CCM | 0 %                         | 22.4 %                       |
| CCA | 0 %                         | 0 %                          |
| WTR | -                           | 0 %                          |
| CE  | -                           | 34.6 %                       |
| PPC | -                           | 0 %                          |
| BIO | -                           | 0 %                          |

Abbreviations: CCM – Climate Change Mitigation, CCA – Climate change Adaption, WTR – Water, CE – Circular Economy. PPC – Pollution Prevention and Control, BIO – Biodiversity and ecosystems

#### T65 OpEx share/total OpEx

|     | Taxonomy-aligned per target | Taxonomy-eligible per target |
|-----|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| CCM | 0 %                         | 0.6 %                        |
| CCA | 0 %                         | 0 %                          |
| WTR | -                           | 0 %                          |
| CE  | -                           | 43.1 %                       |
| PPC | -                           | 0 %                          |
| BIO | -                           | 0 %                          |

Abbreviations: CCM – Climate Change Mitigation, CCA – Climate change Adaption, WTR – Water, CE – Circular Economy. PPC – Pollution Prevention and Control, BIO – Biodiversity and ecosystems

## Page 162

Management Report

Remuneration Report Non-financial Report Consolidated

Financial Statements

# Independent Practitioner's Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Non-financial Reporting <sup>1</sup>

#### To JENOPTIK AG, Jena

We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Combined Separate Non-financial Report of JENOPTIK AG, Jena, (hereinafter the "Company") for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2023 (hereinafter the "Combined Separate Non-financial Report").

Not subject to our assurance engagement are the external sources of documentation or expert opinions mentioned in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report.

## Responsibility of the Executive Directors

The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report in accordance with §§ (Articles) 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB ("Handelsgesetzbuch": "German Commercial Code") and Article 8 of REGULATION (EU) 2020/852 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 18 June 2020 on establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (hereinafter the "EU Taxonomy Regulation") and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder, as well as for making their own interpretation of the wording and terms contained in the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder, as set out in section "Information on the EU Taxonomy Regulation" of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report.

This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate non-financial reporting methods and making assumptions and estimates about individual non-financial disclosures of the Company that are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as the executive directors consider necessary to enable the preparation of a Combined Separate Non-financial Report that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error.

The EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts issued thereunder contain wording and terms that are still subject to considerable interpretation uncertainties and for which clarifications have not yet been published in every case. Therefore, the executive directors have disclosed their interpretation of the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder in section "Information on the EU Taxonomy Regulation" of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report. They are responsible for the defensibility of this interpretation. Due to the immanent risk that indeterminate legal terms may be interpreted differently, the legal conformity of the interpretation is subject to uncertainties.

<sup>1</sup> PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the combined separate non-financial report and issued an independent practitioner`s report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent practitioner`s report.

## Page 163

# Audit Firm's Independence and Quality Management

We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.

Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors ("Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer": "BS WP/vBP") as well as the Standard on Quality Management 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality management for audit firms (IDW Qualitätsmanagementstandard 1: Anforderungen an das Qualitätsmanagement in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis - IDW QMS 1 (09.2022)), which requires the audit firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management that complies with the applicable legal requirements and professional standards.

# Responsibility of the Assurance Practitioner

Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance on the Combined Separate Non-financial Report based on our assurance engagement.

We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Company's Combined Separate Nonfinancial Report, other than the external sources of documentation or expert opinions mentioned in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report, are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts issued thereunder as well as the interpretation by the executive directors disclosed in section "Information on the EU Taxonomy Regulation" of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report.

In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the assurance procedures is subject to the professional judgement of the assurance practitioner.

In the course of our assurance engagement, we have, amongst other things, performed the following assurance procedures and other activities:

- − Gaining an understanding of the structure of the Company's sustainability organisation and stakeholder engagement
- − Inquiries of the executive directors and relevant employees involved in the preparation of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report about the preparation process, about the internal control system relating to this process and about disclosures in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report
- − Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report
- − Analytical procedures on selected disclosures in the Separate Non-financial Report
- − Reconciliation of selected disclosures with the corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and group management report
- − Evaluation of the presentation of the Combined Separate Non-financial Report
- − Evaluation of the process to identify taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities and the corresponding disclosures in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report

## Page 164

In determining the disclosures in accordance with Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the executive directors are required to interpret undefined legal terms. Due to the immanent risk that undefined legal terms may be interpreted differently, the legal conformity of their interpretation and, accordingly, our assurance engagement thereon are subject to uncertainties.

# Assurance Opinion

Based on the assurance procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Combined Separate Non-financial Report of the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2023 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts issued thereunder as well as the interpretation by the executive directors disclosed in section "Information on the EU Taxonomy Regulation" of the Combined Separate Nonfinancial Report.

We do not express an assurance opinion on the external sources of documentation or expert opinions mentioned in the Combined Separate Non-financial Report.

# Restriction of Use

We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engagement was conducted for the Company's purposes and that the report is intended solely to inform the Company about the result of the assurance engagement. Consequently, it may not be suitable for any other purpose than the aforementioned. Accordingly, the report is not intended to be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions based on it. Our responsibility is to the Company. We do not accept any responsibility to third parties. Our assurance opinion is not modified in this respect.

Munich, 15 March 2024

PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Hendrik Fink ppa. Thomas Groth Wirtschaftsprüfer [German public auditor]

ppa. Thomas Groth

## Page 165

# Chapter 5 Consolidated Financial Statements

1

<span id="page-164-0"></span>Jenoptik Annual Report 2023 Chapter 5 | Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

## Page 166

ed Further Infor

# <span id="page-165-0"></span>Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

# Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss

| in thousand euros                                                               | Note No. | 1/1 – 31/12/2023 | 1/1 – 31/12/2022 |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|------------------|------------------|
| Continuing operations                                                           |          |                  |                  |
| Revenue                                                                         | 4.1      | 1,066,048        | 980,684          |
| Cost of sales                                                                   | 4.2      | 695,527          | 634,982          |
| Gross profit                                                                    |          | 370,521          | 345,702          |
| Research and development expenses                                               | 4.3      | 60,923           | 54,610           |
| Selling expenses                                                                |          | 102,984          | 107,559          |
| General administrative expenses                                                 |          | 65,987           | 65,477           |
| Other operating income                                                          | 4.5      | 18,767           | 21,508           |
| Other operating expenses                                                        | 4.6      | 33,067           | 37,655           |
| EBIT                                                                            |          | 126,328          | 101,909          |
| Financial income                                                                | 4.7      | 6,973            | 11,648           |
| Financial expenses                                                              | 4.7      | 21,925           | 17,604           |
| Financial result                                                                |          | - 14,952         | - 5,956          |
| Earnings before tax from continuing operations                                  |          | 111,375          | 95,954           |
| Income taxes                                                                    | 4.8      | - 37,563         | - 32,103         |
| Earnings after tax from continuing operations                                   |          | 73,812           | 63,851           |
| Discontinued operation                                                          |          |                  |                  |
| Earnings after tax from discontinued operation                                  | 4.9      | - 350            | - 6,817          |
| Group                                                                           |          |                  |                  |
| Earnings after tax                                                              |          | 73,462           | 57,034           |
| Results from non-controlling interests                                          |          | 997              | 1,933            |
| Earnings attributable to shareholders                                           | 4.10     | 72,466           | 55,100           |
| Earnings per share in euros (undiluted = diluted)                               | 4.10     | 1.27             | 0.96             |
| Earnings per share from continuing operations in euros<br>(undiluted = diluted) |          | 1.27             | 1.08             |

## Page 167

# Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

| in thousand euros                                                                | Note No. | 1/1 – 31/12/2023 | 1/1 – 31/12/2022 |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|------------------|------------------|
| Earnings after tax                                                               |          | 73,462           | 57,034           |
| Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss                          |          | – 660            | 10,159           |
| Actuarial gains/losses from the valuation of pensions and<br>similar obligations | 5.12     | – 660            | 10,152           |
| thereof: income taxes                                                            |          | 202              | – 2,951          |
| Equity instruments measured at fair value through other<br>comprehensive income  |          | 0                | 7                |
| Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss                          |          | 9,788            | 13,084           |
| Cash flow hedges                                                                 | 8.2      | 945              | 1,229            |
| thereof: income taxes                                                            |          | – 372            | – 520            |
| Foreign currency exchange differences                                            | 2.3      | 8,844            | 11,854           |
| thereof: income taxes                                                            |          | 707              | – 746            |
| Total other comprehensive income                                                 |          | 9,128            | 23,243           |
| Total comprehensive income                                                       |          | 82,591           | 80,276           |
| Thereof attributable to:                                                         |          |                  |                  |
| Non-controlling interests                                                        |          | 279              | 1,828            |
| Shareholders                                                                     |          | 82,312           | 78,448           |

## Page 168

<span id="page-167-0"></span>

| Management | Combined          | Remuneration Report | Non-financial Report | Consolidated         |
|------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
|            | Management Report |                     |                      | Financial Statements |

#### Further Information

# Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

| Assets in thousand euros                          | Note no. | 31/12/2023 | 31/12/2022 |
|---------------------------------------------------|----------|------------|------------|
| Non-current assets                                |          | 1,099,825  | 1,128,455  |
| Intangible assets                                 | 5.1      | 712,512    | 730,642    |
| Property, plant and equipment                     | 5.2/5.3  | 361,654    | 324,606    |
| Investment property                               |          | 3,461      | 3,592      |
| Investments accounted for using the equity method | 5.4      | 207        | 14,310     |
| Financial investments                             |          | 945        | 2,754      |
| Other non-current assets                          | 5.5      | 11,863     | 13,729     |
| Deferred tax assets                               | 4.8      | 9,182      | 38,822     |
| Current assets                                    |          | 567,087    | 543,309    |
| Inventories                                       | 5.6      | 269,261    | 255,950    |
| Current trade receivables                         | 5.7      | 144,239    | 138,769    |
| Contract assets                                   | 5.8      | 68,079     | 58,096     |
| Other current financial assets                    | 5.8      | 5,347      | 13,423     |
| Other current non-financial assets                | 5.10     | 12,472     | 19,265     |
| Current financial investments                     |          | 0          | 1,048      |
| Cash and cash equivalents                         |          | 67,690     | 56,758     |
| Total assets                                      |          | 1,666,912  | 1,671,765  |

| Equity and liabilities in thousand euros | Note no. | 31/12/2023 | 31/12/2022 |
|------------------------------------------|----------|------------|------------|
| Equity                                   | 5.11     | 903,313    | 843,307    |
| Share capital                            |          | 148,819    | 148,819    |
| Capital reserve                          |          | 194,286    | 194,286    |
| Other reserves                           |          | 553,487    | 488,846    |
| Non-controlling interests                |          | 6,720      | 11,356     |
| Non-current liabilities                  |          | 490,198    | 518,959    |
| Pension provisions                       | 5.12     | 4,627      | 4,262      |
| Other non-current provisions             | 5.13     | 14,257     | 17,043     |
| Non-current financial debt               | 8.1/8.2  | 466,487    | 477,729    |
| Other non-current liabilities            |          | 1,936      | 3,863      |
| Deferred tax liabilities                 | 4.8      | 2,891      | 16,062     |
| Current liabilities                      |          | 273,402    | 309,499    |
| Income tax payables                      |          | 6,305      | 10,921     |
| Other current provisions                 | 5.13     | 37,815     | 43,887     |
| Current financial debt                   | 8.1/8.2  | 24,273     | 59,052     |
| Current trade payables                   |          | 108,810    | 100,600    |
| Contract liabilities                     | 5.8      | 68,400     | 64,856     |
| Other current financial liabilities      | 5.15     | 8,058      | 10,306     |
| Other current non-financial liabilities  | 5.16     | 19,741     | 19,876     |
| Total equity and liabilities             |          | 1,666,912  | 1,671,765  |

## Page 169

# <span id="page-168-0"></span>Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

| in thousand euros                                                                           | 1/1 – 31/12/2023 | 1/1 – 31/12/2022 |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|------------------|
| Earnings before tax from continuing operations                                              | 111,375          | 95,954           |
| Earnings before tax from discontinued operation                                             | – 350            | – 5,342          |
| Earnings before tax                                                                         | 111,026          | 90,612           |
| Financial income and expenses                                                               | 14,952           | 6,371            |
| Depreciation and amortization                                                               | 70,870           | 68,265           |
| Impairments and reversals of impairments from non-current assets                            | 12,394           | 13,894           |
| Profit/loss from disposals of non-current assets, subsidiaries, and<br>other business units | 4,415            | 4,893            |
| Other non-cash income/expenses                                                              | – 514            | 488              |
| Dividends received                                                                          | 95               | 720              |
| Change in provisions                                                                        | – 7,026          | – 511            |
| Change in working capital                                                                   | – 17,447         | – 20,809         |
| Change in other assets and liabilities                                                      | 4,891            | – 6,453          |
| Cash flows from operating activities before income tax payments                             | 193,656          | 157,469          |
| Income tax payments                                                                         | – 26,665         | – 14,761         |
| Cash flows from operating activities                                                        | 166,991          | 142,707          |
| Capital expenditure for intangible assets                                                   | – 9,044          | – 14,784         |
| Proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment                                        | 21,368           | 1,380            |
| Capital expenditure for property, plant, and equipment                                      | – 78,636         | – 64,466         |
| Sale of subsidiaries and other business units, net of cash disposed of                      | 2,013            | 63,166           |
| Acquisition of consolidated entities, net of cash acquired                                  | 3,761            | 713              |
| Proceeds from sale of investments accounted for using the<br>equity method                  | 8,480            | 0                |
| Proceeds from other financial investments                                                   | 3,967            | 1,583            |
| Capital expenditure for other financial investments and<br>investment properties            | – 1,377          | – 1,239          |
| Interest received and similar income                                                        | 988              | 233              |
| Cash flows from investing activities                                                        | – 48,481         | – 13,415         |
| Dividend to shareholders of the parent company                                              | – 17,171         | – 14,310         |
| Dividend to non-controlling interests                                                       | – 4,083          | – 3,298          |
| Proceeds from additions of financial liabilities                                            | 13,187           | 126,197          |
| Repayments of loans                                                                         | – 68,076         | – 206,783        |
| Payments for leases                                                                         | – 14,242         | – 14,639         |
| Change in group financing                                                                   | 1,142            | – 3,949          |
| Interest paid and similar expenses                                                          | – 15,697         | – 10,544         |
| Cash flows from financing activities                                                        | – 104,940        | – 127,325        |
| Cash-effective change in cash and cash equivalents                                          | 13,570           | 1,967            |
| Change in cash and cash equivalents from foreign currency effects                           | – 2,518          | 36               |
| Change of loss allowance and consolidation-related changes<br>in cash and cash equivalents  | – 120            | – 62             |
| Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period                                    | 56,758           | 54,817           |
