## Page 42

# Risks of future development

# R is k m a n a g e m e n t s y s t em ( RM S )

The Flughafen Wien Group (FWAG) has established a risk management system (RMS) that identifies, analyses and assesses all relevant aspects and handles them using suitable measures. This system is shown in the following diagram:

Image /page/41/Figure/4 description: The image shows a pyramid diagram illustrating the risk management process. The left side of the image has a vertical bar labeled "Risk management guideline". The right side of the image has a vertical bar labeled "Risk and process management software". The pyramid is divided into several levels, each representing a stage in the risk management process. The top level is labeled "Risk strategy", followed by "Risk management structure", and then "Risk management cycle". The bottom level is divided into four sections: "Riskidentification", "Risk assessment & -aggregation", "Risk reporting", and "Risk control & assignment of measures". A circular arrow connects "Riskidentification" and "Risk assessment & -aggregation", indicating a continuous feedback loop.

Source: adapted from Denk, Exner-Merkelt, Ruthner (2008): Corporate Risk Management

The RSM for the entire Group is based on the "Standard for Enterprise Risk Management" of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and is implemented in a policy.

Risk owners and risk officers in the business units and affiliated companies are responsible for implementing the policy. The risk management cycle, consisting of risk identification, risk assessment and aggregation, risk control and assignment of measures, and reporting, is run on a regular basis. The entire RMS is documented using process and risk management software to provide a central database for all identified risks and associated measures. The internal control system (ICS) covers aspects of risk management in order to ensure the reliability of operational reporting and compliance with the associated laws and regulations and to protect the assets. In addition, the internal audit department regularly evaluates business practices and organisational processes for compliance with Group guidelines, security and usefulness. The existing systems are evaluated on a regular basis and developed further as required. Risk management is complemented by Group-wide innovation management, which is used to identify new earnings potential in all areas of the company at an early stage and to develop them to market readiness. Malta Airport has issued its own risk management policy, which is based on the uniform Group-wide standards referred to above and is located within strategic controlling. This coordinates all risk management activities on a central basis.

## Page 43

# E c o n o m i c a n d po li t ic a l r is k s

The development of business is significantly influenced by the global, European and regional dynamics in aviation, which are in turn heavily dependent on general economic conditions. Economic fluctuations can therefore have a decisive influence on the company's business performance. Russia's attack on Ukraine, the Israeli offensive in Gaza as a reaction to the terrorist act committed by Hamas in October 2023 and the persistently high inflation rates are the issues that are dominating the agenda at both European and national level at the moment. The important topic of sustainability in aviation is considered in detail in the "Environmental risks" section.

The overall risk position of the FWAG Group is constantly changing. One effect resulting from the continued easing of the Covid-19 pandemic is that risk is being reduced significantly. The Russian war of aggression in Ukraine, the new military conflict in Gaza as well as persistently high inflation continue to have an adverse impact, on the other hand. In particular, the current closure of Ukrainian air space and the existing ban on Western airlines from entering Russian air space are resulting in occasionally much longer travel times to East and Southeast Asia and thus in negative impacts also on FWAG's business performance. Civil aircraft are also not flying over the conflict region in Gaza at the moment, which is, however, having only a minor effect on travel times because of the limited size of the conflict region. Negative impacts are also arising from the loss or sharp decline in Russian, Ukrainian and, in part, Israeli passengers.

How these conflicts will develop is very difficult to foresee. Essentially, it is conceivable both that the general conditions will be exacerbated (for example if the Gaza conflict expands to other conflict areas in the region) and that tensions will subside (especially if the parties in the conflict reach an agreement).

The Russian war of aggression in particular is having a severe impact on Austrian, European and global economic output. The drastic rises in energy prices and uncertainties of supply have driven inflation rates in the last few years to heights that have not been seen in decades. They are only slowly returning to pre-crisis levels and the inflation target of the ECB of 2%. The high price rises in conjunction with the countermeasures employed by the central banks in the form of higher base rates are causing an economic slowdown, which is also having negative effects on Vienna Airport. Similarly, the higher energy prices and personnel costs are resulting in rising expenses. These developments are being countered, however, with measures such as increasing energy efficiency and in-house power generation.

Further political tension and terrorist threats in individual countries and regions of the world also have a negative impact on bookings in the respective tourist destinations. In the past, however, it has been observed that such declines were of a short-term nature or were compensated by other destinations. Negative sales effects are possible in the duty free business if passengers travel to EU destinations instead of travelling to non-EU destinations.

# L e g a l r i s ks

At the EU level, significant legislative proposals have not been pursued in the current legislative period despite extensive consultations. These include in particular the Airports Charges Directive, the Slots Regulation and the Groundhandling Services Directive. It can therefore be expected that the next EU Commission will take up these dossiers again. Given the legislative process, however, these regulations and directives are unlikely to enter into force before 2027. It is already known that the Commission has plans to implement a new Aviation Security Strategy. This essentially envisages significantly raising the technical standards for security checks, which would result in massive costs for procuring new equipment (body scanners, CT scanners, EDS Standard 3) as well as increased energy costs and operational changes. A legislative proposal is not expected until 2025, however, after the new Commission has started its work. Implementation is currently planned to take place as early as 2027 to 2030, however.

## Page 44

Environmental and climate issues remain a key area of focus at both national and European level. In Austria, the government decided to increase the air travel levy, while the eco-social tax reform took effect on 1 January 2022. Corporation tax will be cut from 25% to 23% in two stages. Moreover, national carbon pricing was introduced in October 2022 (please see the sub-section on "Environmental risks" for more information).

In July 2021, the EU Commission presented the legislative package "Fit for 55" aimed at achieving the targets of the European Green Deal. This contains measures that will significantly increase the costs of aviation, such as gradually introducing a kerosene tax (still under negotiation), applying a considerably higher price to certificates in the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and integrating CORSIA, a mandatory blending quota for sustainable aviation fuels (ReFuel EU Aviation) (resolved) as well as issuing a directive on establishing infrastructure for sustainable fuels (AFIR, resolved). The revision of the AFIR that is envisaged contains in particular the obligations for airports to be able to supply stationary aircraft with electricity at all gate parking positions by 2025 and at all remote positions by 2030. In addition, a further obligation is being discussed in conjunction with the revision of the TEN-T Regulation that envisages the installation of pre-conditioned air (PCA) systems at all contact stands by 2030.

The planned measures increase the risk of a unilateral competitive disadvantage for European airlines and European hubs in relation to non-European competitors and the risk that air traffic flows will be displaced. The associated investments and follow-up costs (e.g. for upgrading the electricity grid) will entail substantial cost increases for FWAG.

Finally, new requirements for reductions in emissions can be expected in the area of climate policy. The new climate goal of the EU Commission envisages a reduction in CO2 emissions of 90% by 2040 from the level of emissions in recorded in 1990. What effects this new target will have on Vienna Airport or the site in general cannot be estimated at the moment.

New, bureaucratically complex regulations additionally apply to FWAG as a result of the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) with effect from 1 January 2024 and the application of the EU Taxonomy Regulation since 2022. As a company that falls under the scope of this legislation, FWAG is required to break down key sustainability matters as well as revenue, CapEx and OpEx in accordance with the economic activities defined by the EU Taxonomy Regulation.

Several significant elections will take place in 2024, the outcome of which will also effect European and Austrian aviation. In addition to the European Parliament elections from 6 to 9 June, Austria will also go to the polls in several elections in 2024. The election of a new National Council (the lower house of parliament) in the autumn and the subsequent formation of a new government will certainly be the most consequential for the country here. The impacts on FWAG cannot be evaluated at the moment. Very few, if any, key legislative changes that would have a significant influence on the company are expected at the federal level in the current legislative period.

In order to rule out liability on the part of management or the Management Board in the event of noncompliance with legal requirements, compliance with the regulations is ensured through internal guidelines, particularly the Issuer Compliance Guideline and the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR). The necessary non-disclosure areas have been established in FWAG to ensure compliance with insider regulations.

# M a r k e t a n d c o m pe t i ti v e r is k s

After the historic slump in aviation activities in 2020, the last few years have seen air traffic recover almost completely from the declines caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2022, the number of kilometres flown by passengers worldwide was just 5.9% lower than the figures from the previous record year of 2019, which equates to growth of 25.3% compared with the passenger-kilometres from the previous year (source: IATA, Air Passenger Market Analysis, December 2023).

## Page 45

Following a difficult year in 2022 and a hesitant start to 2023, freight traffic is now experiencing an upturn again. In December 2023, cargo volumes (in cargo tonne kilometres) were 10.8% up on the figures from December 2022. Across 2023 as a whole, however, the weak first half of the year meant that cargo volumes were still 1.9% lower than the cargo tonne kilometres (CTK) of the previous year. Compared with the pre-crisis year of 2019, CTK in 2023 was around 3.6% lower (source: IATA, Air Passenger Market Analysis, December 2023).

The outlook for 2024 and the years to come remains positive. After a particular strong year in 2023 especially in passenger air traffic, growth may weaken, but increasing volumes in the passenger and cargo sectors are also expected in the next few years. Global passenger air traffic is even forecast to double by 2040 (source: IATA, Global Outlook for Air Transport – A local sweet spot, December 2023).

Vienna Airport can also look back with satisfaction at the last financial year. Welcoming 29.5 million passengers in 2023, the airport recorded the second most successful year in its history, actually lagging only slightly behind the current record year of 2019 (31.7 million passengers). The swift recovery has shown once again that air traffic is characterised by a high degree of resilience and can bounce back from slumps within just a short time.

As the home carrier at the Vienna site, Austrian Airlines remained FWAG's largest customer with a market share of 46.9%, even if this has fallen back slightly in comparison with the previous year (-0.2 percentage points). Austrian Airlines' strategic focus and its long-term development as a strong network carrier have a significant influence on the commercial success of FWAG and are therefore under constant observation and analysis by the responsible business areas. Austrian Airlines was able to bring 2023 to a very positive close. Passenger numbers increased by 24.4% to just under 13.9 million passengers at Vienna Airport. Revenue rose by 25.4% to € 2.35 billion in 2023, while operating profit was € 127 million set against € 3 million in the previous year. Austrian took receipt of five Airbus A320neo in 2023, which made a further contribution to the rejuvenation of the fleet. AUA's long-haul fleet, which is important for the Vienna site, will also be comprehensively upgraded in the years to come. The first two of in total 11 Boeing 787- 9 Dreamliners are scheduled to join AUA in the first half of 2024 to start replacing the current long-haul fleet consisting of Boeing 767s and 777s. These investments can be seen as a substantial sign of the confidence that the Group parent Lufthansa has in the Vienna site (source: Austria Press Agency (APA) report on the expansion of the long-haul fleet).

In addition to Austrian Airlines, it is primarily the low-cost carriers (LCCs) that are of great importance for the Vienna site and that diversify the offer at Vienna Airport. As the representative of the LCCs with the highest passenger volumes, Ryanair transported just under 6.0 million passengers in 2023, an increase of 20.4% from the previous year. Its market share of 20.2% fell slightly by 0.7 percentage points from the previous year, however. Ryanair has stationed an additional aircraft at Vienna Airport for the 2023/2024 winter flight schedule. Wizz Air recorded a very positive performance at the Vienna site. While its market share increased only marginally by 0.1 percentage points, passenger numbers grew by 26.9%. As LCCs can act and react with great flexibility, adaptations can arise at any time. The developments at the LCCs also continue to be monitored closely for this reason.

Malta (fully consolidated) and Košice (recorded at equity) are also exposed to the above industry risks as well as to additional local site-specific challenges and market risks. As a traditional holiday destination, Malta Airport was very badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, but has been able to recover from the impacts again. Malta Airport handled over 7.8 million passengers in 2023, which represents growth of 33.4% from 2022 and an increase of 6.7% compared with the pre-crisis year of 2019.

As the home carrier of the airport, Air Malta is of central importance to it, but finds itself confronted by a challenging market situation. Competition at Malta Airport is particularly intense especially on account of the high proportion of low-cost carriers there. Ryanair in particular enjoys a strong market position

## Page 46

as well as the largest share of the market at the location, for example. Driven by this intense competition, Air Malta decided in January 2022 to start a restructuring process. The process that was initiated fell through, however, as the state aid involved was not approved by the EU Commission. Air Malta will consequently stop flight operations on 30 March 2024. Immediately following this, however, a new Maltese (successor) carrier will be founded called KM Malta Airlines. With the help of a sustainable strategy, this new carrier is looking to turn the situation around and lead KM Malta Airlines into a successful longterm future. Should a favourable outcome not be achieved, this would have negative repercussions on passenger traffic and thus the results of Malta Airport in the short term. In the medium and long term, however, it is assumed that new airlines or those already represented at the site would increase their capacity and service the existing demand (source: AeroInt Malta Air).

2023 also saw Košice Airport exceed pre-crisis levels, as it handled more than 620,000 passengers in the past year, which corresponds to an increase of 15.2% over the previous year and +12.0% compared with 2019. With possible airline restructuring plans, there is a risk that flights to and from regional airports may be cut or reduced. Košice's geographical proximity to Ukraine has increased this risk. What impacts the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine will have on Košice Airport will depend on how long the war lasts and how it develops.

The high level of competition between airlines has been driving price pressure on upstream service providers, such as handling services, for years. To counteract this, however, FWAG has launched a large number of measures in the last few years to increase efficiency and optimise workflows along the entire value chain that have been successfully implemented and that have resulted in a sustainable increase in productivity. Again in 2023, the handling services unit was the market leader in ramp handling as well as cargo handling at Vienna Airport. The risk of losing market share is extensively hedged by the existence of long-term service agreements with the most important key accounts as well as high quality standards. The cargo sector has suffered under the current circumstances (high inflation, weak supply and service flows, war in Ukraine, conflict in Gaza) much more than passenger traffic. For example, cargo volume at Vienna Airport declined by 2.2% in 2023 versus 2022.

In the Retail & Properties segment, FWAG rents out buildings and space that are used primarily by companies whose business development is dependent on that of air traffic (retailers, airlines, etc.). This business is therefore subject not only to the general risks of the real estate market, but also to the risks of changes in passenger volumes and changes in passengers' buying power, for example in connection with the devaluation of the relevant domestic currency against the euro (currency risks). Due to revenuebased contractual components, this is linked to effects on FWAG's revenue situation in the retail and property sectors. A major influence on the retail sector will come from the southern extension of the terminal, which is scheduled to be completed by 2027 and will entail a considerable expansion of the retail area and more generally an improvement in the shopping and restaurant options in the terminal area.

# F i n a n c e a n d i n v e s t me n t r i s k s

The FWAG treasury department is responsible for the efficient management of changes in interest rate and market risks and evaluates the respective risk positions on a regular basis as part of risk controlling. The greatest possible reduction of variable rate financial liabilities has massively reduced the potential impact of interest rate changes on FWAG. The last loan (EIB loan) was paid back in full at the end of 2023, as a result of which FWAG is free of debt as at the end of the year. Detailed information on financial risks – including liquidity risk, credit risk, changes in interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk – and the financial instruments used to counter them can be found in note (38) to the consolidated financial statements. The general and specific market risks already referred to above, in addition to country-specific political and regulatory risks in Malta and Slovakia, can adversely affect the medium-term planning of the investments in Malta and Košice airports and in extreme cases lead to impairment on assets, goodwill

## Page 47

and the carrying amounts of investments. FWAG's capex projects are exposed to various risks – including the loss of suppliers, higher construction costs or changes in planning – that could increase the intended expenditure. A full risk assessment is therefore already performed in the pre-project phase of the relevant capex project. The regulations to be complied in terms of project organisation or audits and approvals when handling construction projects are defined in the construction manual. A large number of investment projects were postponed in the course of the savings programme initiated as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, but these are now gradually being implemented, including the major project involving the southern extension of the terminal, for example.

The construction of the "Parallel runway 11R/29L" (third runway) is a key project for FWAG's long-term development and growth potential. This will continue to be pursued and planned as a top priority in line with the actual development of the number of flights as well as its cost-effectiveness. All assets were measured based on the assumption that Vienna Airport will maintain its position as an east-west hub.

In May 2023, the environmental impact assessment authority extended the completion date of the third runway project to 30 June 2033. This extension was approved because the appeal proceedings had lasted more than seven years and because air traffic collapsed after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Several complaints have again been launched against this decision, but they do not have suspensive effect. The decision on these may take several years and possibly end up being referred to the highest courts again.

# O p e r a t in g r is k s

The development of traffic is also significantly influenced by national and external factors such as terrorism, war or other latent risks (e.g. pandemics, closing of air space due to natural disasters and wars, strikes etc.). Similarly, local risks of damage, such as fire, natural disasters, accidents or terrorism at the site as well as theft of or damage to property, constitute operating risks. Global climate change can represent a risk for airport operations, also in Europe. Increasing weather extremes, such as storms, unusual levels of precipitation and longer lasting heat and cold waves can negatively impact air traffic on a short-term basis.

Vienna Airport conducts ongoing monitoring as part of its efforts to be appropriately prepared when it comes to the impact of the operating risks. Furthermore, Vienna Airport ensures it is well prepared for emergencies through appropriate emergency plans, safety and fire protection measures and high safety standards. The operating risks are covered by appropriate insurance (aviation liability insurance, terror liability insurance etc.). The energy transition in Europe and the resulting increased focus on renewable energy are reducing the system security of the European power grid due to the lower level of controllability and are raising the risk of blackouts. This risk is countered through emergency power generators and increasing in-house power generation using photovoltaic systems.

As Vienna Airport plays a critical role as a key infrastructure provider and backbone of international integration in the entire Central and Eastern European region, particularly high demands are placed on the availability, the reliability, the quality and the data security of the ICT (information and communication technology) systems that are used.

The operating risks relating to ICT were adjusted in the reporting year based on the level of cyber threat in Austria. Material operating risks in corporate risk management are the risks of a cyber-attack and the associated failure of information technology. FWAG continuously implements measures to reduce ICT risks in order to continue to guarantee maximum IT security. One such measure is the operation of a management system for information security (ISMS) and the use of a technical IT security roadmap derived from that. Extensively monitoring security incidents, regularly scanning IT infrastructure for vulnerability and replacing outdated systems (end of life) are among the measures on the IT security roadmap aimed at counteracting cyber threats.

## Page 48

FWAG is aware of the great importance of motivated and committed employees in attaining the corporate goals. In order to counteract the potential loss of know-how through turnover, numerous measures are implemented to strengthen employee retention. Furthermore, a number of measures are also implemented to increase occupational safety and to minimise absences due to illness.

# E n v ir o n m e n t a l r i s k s

FWAG is exposed in the course of its business operations to a number of environmental risks, the development of which are closely tracked. Potential impacts from climate change are continually monitored in this connection, for example. A number of potential threats caused by changes in climate conditions in the next ten years and beyond are presented using two possible scenarios in this analysis. The potential sources of risks that are analysed here include in particular increases in heat waves, increases in episodes of short, heavy rainfall, the long-term rise in the global average temperature as well as the occurrence of extreme wind conditions. Appropriate measures to counter the risk factors that are identified are evaluated on an ongoing basis and implemented if possible (e.g. possibilities for installing rainwater storage tanks and possibilities for drainage at the site to prevent damage from surface water flooding after heavy rainfall). It is not just risks but also opportunities that are considered in this connection. For example, the rise in the global average temperature creates the risk that the attractiveness of certain travel destinations will be reduced during extreme heat waves. But the tourist season in summer destinations may also be extended or new tourism regions may open up as a result.

Vienna Airport is also aware of its responsibilities when it comes to preventing or curbing climate changes and has already taken appropriate actions to this end. A comprehensive and systematic energy and environmental management system (EMS) was already established back in 2012, for example. The aim of this system is to improve energy efficiency, further reduce energy consumption and produce energy in-house from renewable sources (using photovoltaic systems). Thanks to these measures, FWAG has succeeded in running its operations as carbon-neutral since 2023.

Public desire for a reduction in flight noise is taken into account by levying noise fees as well as continually monitoring compliance with the night flight restrictions. In addition, FWAG sets great store by cooperating as a partner with the airport region in the course of the mediation procedure (dialogue forum).

Possible impacts of climate-related changes are also taken into consideration in the corporate strategy and in the long-term company planning. Similarly, environmental and climate-related risks are also accounted for when the impairment test is conducted, which therefore takes these risks into consideration with their probabilities of occurrence. As well as recognition via expected values, the impairment tests also cover direct expenses for compliance with climate targets. Environmental risks can also exert an influence on the expected useful life of assets, especially those in areas exposed to the weather.

FWAG is also exposed to a number of regulatory risks resulting from new legislation to curb climate change. These risks have already been discussed in the section "Legal risks". These impacts are also taken into consideration in the corporate strategy, the company planning and the impairment tests.

# Ge n e r a l r i s k a ss e s s m e n t

Despite the considerable crisis-related and macroeconomic challenges, the general evaluation of FWAG's risk situation does not identify any risks to the company as a going concern. Its continued existence is secured going forward.

## Page 49

# Report on the key features of the internal control system for accounting processes

In accordance with Section 82 of the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, the Management Board is responsible for developing and implementing an appropriate internal control and risk management system for accounting processes. In subsidiaries, this responsibility is fulfilled by the respective managers in strict compliance with all related Group guidelines and directives. The following section describes how these legal requirements are satisfied.

The structure and design of FWAG's ICS is defined in a policy. The objective of FWAG's ICS is to ensure the reliability of financial reporting and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The ICS in a broader sense also includes safeguarding assets and ensuring activities are recorded and invoiced correctly and in full.

The description of the major features of these internal controls is based on the structure of the internationally recognised COSO model. Accordingly, the ICS comprises the control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication and monitoring. The relevant processes involve identifying and assessing the financial and accounting risks to which the company is exposed as well as implementing appropriate controls. The control system is documented using standard software. This provides a general or department-wide overview of the status of the ICS at all times. In addition, automated workflows also inform the responsible officers of the departments and subsidiaries about any actions that are required and prompts them to perform them (e.g. to conduct assessments or carry out defined checks).

The corporate culture within which management and employees operate has a significant influence on the control environment. The company encourages the active communication and dissemination of its principal values as a means of anchoring ethics and integrity in the company and in interaction with other parties. The Code of Conduct of Flughafen Wien AG makes an important contribution here. The implementation of the ICS in accounting processes is regulated by internal guidelines and directives.

# R is k a s se s s m e n t

Materiality of risks is based on a combination of probability of occurrence and potential effects (amount of damage). The consolidated and annual financial statements provide the key criteria for these effects. To determine probability of occurrence, an expanded evaluation model with a number of qualitative aspects is used on the basis of a weighted scoring model. Account will be taken of such factors as complexity and degree of automation of processes or the presence of specific organisational backup measures. The results of this expanded risk assessment will be used as a basis for planning the effectiveness test by Internal Audit. From time to time, estimates must be made on future developments when preparing the consolidated and annual financial statements. This poses an imminent risk that the future business development may deviate from these planning assumptions. In particular, the following circumstances or positions in the consolidated financial statements are involved: employee-related provisions, the results of legal disputes, the collectability of receivables, impending losses from pending business and the valuation of investments in other companies and property, plant and equipment (see also section IV. "Judgements and estimate uncertainty" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).

## Page 61

quieter aircraft pay less. The penalty/reward system is neutral in terms of costs, and the noise fees do not represent any additional source of income for the airport.

### Noise protection

The Vienna Airport noise protection programme that was started in 2005 as part of the mediation contract aims to protect the health and improve the quality of life of people who live close to the airport. Where the continuous sound level exceeds 54 dB during the day and 45 dB during the night, Vienna Airport assumes between 50% and 100% of the costs for noise protection measures, for example, the installation of soundproof windows and doors. Up to the end of 2023, building expert opinions were prepared for 6,320 properties and optimal noise protection was installed in 2,993 of these.

# E m is s i o n s a n d c li m a te p r o t ec t i o n

The operation of an airport, especially aircraft handling operations and landside traffic, contributes, albeit to a lesser degree, to general airborne emissions from the aviation industry.

All emissions are recorded without gaps in the area around the airport as part of air quality monitoring and through the production of an annual carbon footprint. Measures and programmes are developed on an ongoing basis with airlines to systematically minimise emissions.

### ACAS (Airport Carbon Accreditation System)

With the help of a carbon footprint, FWAG also takes part in the Airport Carbon Accreditation System (ACAS, www.airportcarbonaccreditation.org) programme managed by the Airports Council International Europe (ACI Europe). Vienna Airport was given Level 1 certification back in 2013, in 2015 there was a move up to Level 2, and in October 2016 Level 3 certification was achieved for the first time and has been reaffirmed by ACI every year since. Level 3 certification stipulates a further reduction in CO2 emissions with greater involvement of all the companies operating at the airport.

Numerous projects to reduce greenhouse gases have been and are being implemented at Vienna Airport. For example, Vienna Airport already obtains all its electricity in a carbon-neutral manner. The expansion of photovoltaics at the site sustainably supports Vienna Airport's goal of carbon neutrality. The procurement of district heating has been completely carbon neutral since 2023. The expansion of the electric vehicle fleet and the offsetting of CO2 emissions that are currently still caused by FWAG's use of fossil fuels (mainly in aircraft handling) are intended to enable the carbon-neutral operation of Vienna Airport from 2023 onwards.

To be better able to identify its CO2 emissions, Malta Airport also joined the ACI Airport Carbon Accreditation Programme in 2016 and received Level 2 certification for the first time in 2022. The ACI renewed Malta Airport's Level 2 certification in 2022 and subsequently in 2023 following a half-yearly review process. In addition, work was officially started on involving the stakeholders and collecting data in order to prepare for the transition to certification at Level 3 of the programme. In this connection, over 110 stakeholder groups, from ground handling companies to cleaning services providers, were asked to take part in the collection of Scope 3 emission data.

Together with the environment task force set up in 2021, the management team continues to work on a detailed plan of targets and measures to further reduce CO2 emissions. Malta Airport's goal is to achieve net zero status by 2050.

## Page 62

# W a s t e

Depending on the number of passengers and the services provided, rubbish and waste materials are created at commercial airports from the widest variety of areas, including terminals, offices, logistics warehouses, equipment hangars, technical stations, hotels, aircraft hangars and the aircraft themselves.

Waste management logistics comparable to those of a small town are therefore in operation at Vienna Airport. In addition to the two largest types of waste, industrial waste and waste paper/cardboard packaging, packaging waste, scrap metal and hazardous waste, such as lubricating oil and solvent residues from the maintenance of aircraft and vehicles on the ground, are also produced. All waste volumes are covered in the current waste management concept, broken down according to type of waste.

An overview of around 350 materials (from paint strippers or aluminium cans to toothbrushes or branches) and their correct disposal can be found in the "VIE Abfalltrenn-ABC" brochure ("ABC of waste sorting at Vienna Airport").

Following on from the launch of the collection of organic water in 2021, a new company-wide environmental KPI was introduced at Malta Airport in 2022 Even though the passenger numbers from 2019 were exceeded, it proved possible to reduce landfill waste by 22%. In addition, our proportion of recycled waste of 11% in 2019 was increased to 17% in 2023. Constant efforts are undertaken to guarantee better waste sorting throughout the entire airport.

### Avoid, reduce, recycle

Waste avoidance plays the leading role in waste management at Vienna Airport. Unavoidable waste is appropriately sorted and, depending on the options available, assigned for reuse or recycling. Waste separation at the airport is carried out here in accordance with strict guidelines, which makes recycling easier and more cost-efficient. All options for efficient waste management are made use of here. Biogenic waste, glass and plastic bottles are collected separately and sent for recycling. Special environmental islands in the terminal areas also offer passengers the opportunity to dispose of their rubbish in line with the labelling. FWAG's volume of waste (Vienna site) amounted to 4,866 tonnes at the airport in 2023.

# W a t e r c o n s u mp t io n

Vienna Airport's water supply is provided by four wells owned by the airport. Not including customers, the Flughafen Wien Group's water consumption (Vienna site) in 2023 amounted to 613,429 m³ (2022 adjusted: 509,201 m³).

As a result of its location, Malta Airport has low levels of precipitation, and so it is essential that water is handled sensibly. In addition to collection rainwater through seven reservoirs on the airport's land, nonpotable groundwater is supplied the whole year round. Water consumption (drinkable and not drinkable) at Malta Airport was 134,828 m<sup>3</sup> in the 2023 financial year. As part of its water action plans for 2023, Malta Airport continued to work on a landscaping project for planting native species in order to reduce the water consumption from irrigation.

# W a s t ew a t e r

A central aspect of wastewater disposal is the complete canalisation of the sealed areas situated airside. Rainwater run-off is led from the individual drainage areas of the airport – runways, aprons and taxiways alone make up an area of more than 2.5 million square metres – to the central wastewater disposal plant. The pollution level of the wastewater is measured on line where the main collector enters the central wastewater disposal plant.

## Page 63

Polluted wastewater is pumped through separate pipes to the Schwechat-Mannswörth treatment plant.

As a result of the targeted separation of polluted from non-polluted wastewater, it has been possible to reduce the volume of wastewater to be processed in the treatment plant. FWAG's wastewater (Vienna site) amounted to 350,573 m³ in 2023.

# S u s ta i n a b le p r o c u r e m en t

Sustainable, environmentally friendly procurement, meaning the purchase of green products and services that are also manufactured and performed in accordance with social standards, is a key company target. The use of regional providers is also taken into account here. In Austria, the "National action plan for sustainable procurement" was launched under the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment. In this way, sustainable criteria are taken into consideration in the procurement process and the action plan is implemented jointly. The action plan has been in effect since autumn 2010 in the Federal Procurement Agency (BBG). Some procurement by the Flughafen Wien Group has been handled via the BBG. As a sectoral contracting entity, FWAG is also subject to the requirements of the Austrian Federal Public Procurement Act.

The largest suppliers in terms of order value belong to the sectors of construction, petroleum processing, metal working, special vehicles, technology and various services such as IT and airport handling. Measured in terms of order value, the majority of contractors come from the region in the immediate vicinity of the airport: around 80% of the 35 largest suppliers are from Vienna and Lower Austria, 2% from other Austrian states and the remaining 18% are predominantly from Europe.

# E U T a x o n o my

The EU Sustainable Finance Taxonomy, or the EU Taxonomy for short, is a core element of the European Union's action plan for financing sustainable growth. It represents part of the EU Green Deal, with the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. The EU Taxonomy contains a classification system for defining environmentally sustainable business activities based on six defined environmental goals, the defined economic activities allocated to these and defined technical criteria for auditing them.

The following six environmental objectives have been defined in the EU Taxonomy:

- Climate protection (code CCM)
- Climate change adaptation (code CCA)
- Protection of water and marine resources (code WTR)
- Transition to a circular economy (code CE)
- Pollution prevention and control (code PPC)
- Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems (Code BIO)

An economic activity is considered to be taxonomy eligible if it is listed and described in the delegated act on the relevant climate goals. Taxonomy alignment is determined by the additional fulfilment of the requirements set out below, which classify the economic activity as environmentally sustainable.

- The economic activity makes a substantial contribution to at least one of the six environmental objectives
- The economic activity does not significantly harm any of the other objectives ("do no significant harm", DNSH)
- The economic activity is performed in compliance with specific minimum standards relating to social factors and governance aspects ("minimum safeguards", MS)

## Page 64

Whether the goals based on the substantial contribution and DNSH criteria are met is determined using technical screening criteria that have been issued by means of delegated acts of the European Commission.

The following key figures have to be disclosed for activities that are classed as environmentally sustainable:

- Turnover: proportion of the turnover derived from products or services that are associated with defined environmentally sustainable economic activities.
- CapEx: the proportion of the capital expenditure relating to assets or processes that are associated with defined environmentally sustainable economic activities.
- OpEx: the proportion of the operating expenditure relating to assets or processes that are associated with defined environmentally sustainable economic activities.

The taxonomy-eligible proportion shows the allocation of turnover, CapEx and OpEx to the potentially environmentally sustainable economic activities set out in the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The taxonomyaligned proportion reflects the turnover, CapEx and OpEx classified as actually environmentally sustainable.

Using the published delegated acts for the EU climate objectives, the Flughafen Wien Group conducted a stock-take that examined individual activities to see whether they are relevant for the taxonomy and subsequently calculated taxonomy indicators. To assess the taxonomy eligibility, the economic activities were comprehensively screened on the basis of their descriptions, with the involvement of the specialist departments, to see whether they are relevant for the Flughafen Wien Group. To check the taxonomy alignment, a review was carried out of the technical screening criteria to determine whether a material contribution is made to the EU environmental objectives in question. Subsequently, it was examined whether, based on the defined criteria, significant harm is caused to the achievement of the other environmental objectives ("do no significant harm") and whether the minimum criteria for social aspects and governance concerns are met ("minimum safeguards").

The key indicators are determined based on the consolidated financial statements, where the definitions of these indicators for the EU Taxonomy differ in some respects from the IFRS definitions. To calculate the numerator, the taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned items of the denominator are determined using the allocation to the defined economic activities. The following items were considered:

- Turnover: revenue in accordance with IAS 1.82(a) is used to determine total revenue.
- CapEx: All capital expenditure (additions) relating to property, plant and equipment (IAS 16), intangible assets (IAS 38), investment property (IAS 40) and leases (IFRS 16) are taken into account.
- OpEx: direct, non-capitalised costs are included in operating expenses (OpEx). These include in particular research and development costs, building renovation work, expenses for short-term leases, and maintenance and repairs (including maintenance materials and direct personnel costs in connection with the performance of maintenance).

To avoid double counting, CapEx and OpEx were first examined to determine whether, based on their nature, they are "directly associated with a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned economic activity". In a subsequent step, it was determined whether they relate to individual measures enabling the lowcarbon execution of the target activities or a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. A principle of prudence was applied here: if a part of the capital expenditure or of a product cannot be calculated using a relatively simple allocation formula, this part is not recognised.

Two new delegated regulations relating to the EU Taxonomy were published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 21 November 2023, which contain the technical screening criteria for the outstanding climate goals 3 to 6 ("sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources", "transition

## Page 65

to a circular economy", "pollution prevention and control" and "protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems") and supplement the two climate-related environmental goals 1 and 2 ("climate change mitigation" and "climate change adaptation") for which taxonomy eligibility and taxonomy alignment already had to be reported in the 2022 financial year.

For the listed climate goals 3–6, only taxonomy eligibility has to be applied in the screening to begin with. The audit of taxonomy alignment is thus not required for this in 2023. The same applies for the newly added economic activities for the environmental goals "climate change mitigation" and "climate change adaptation" already applied up to now. In expectation of clarifications that are still pending in the FAQs, the Flughafen Wien Group makes use of this exception in the reporting for the 2023 financial year (for FWAG, this related to CCM 6.20 "Air transport ground handling services" and CE 3.4 "Maintenance of roads and motorways"). For reports that are published from 1 January 2025 onwards, the full reporting duties relating to taxonomy alignment will then apply.

| 2023 in % | Taxonomy aligned | Taxonomy eligible | Taxonomy-non-eligible |
|-----------|------------------|-------------------|-----------------------|
| Revenue   | 0.3%             | 33.8%             | 66.0%                 |
| CapEx     | 8.7%             | 22.6%             | 68.7%                 |
| OpEx      | 0.7%             | 34.1%             | 65.2%                 |

|     | Turnover Proportion/Total-Turnover |                        |
|-----|------------------------------------|------------------------|
|     | Aligned per objective              | Eligible per objective |
| CCM | 0.3%                               | 33.7%                  |
| CCA | 0.0%                               | 0.1%                   |
| WTR | 0.0%                               | 0.0%                   |
| CE  | 0.0%                               | 0.0%                   |
| PPC | 0.0%                               | 0.0%                   |
| BIO | 0.0%                               | 0.0%                   |

|     | CapEx-Proportion/Total-CapEx |                        |
|-----|------------------------------|------------------------|
|     | Aligned per objective        | Eligible per objective |
| CCM | 8.7%                         | 22.6%                  |
| CCA | 0.0%                         | 0.0%                   |
| WTR | 0.0%                         | 0.0%                   |
| CE  | 0.0%                         | 0.0%                   |
| PPC | 0.0%                         | 0.0%                   |
| BIO | 0.0%                         | 0.0%                   |

|     | OpEx-Proportion/Total-OpEx |                        |
|-----|----------------------------|------------------------|
|     | Aligned per objective      | Eligible per objective |
| CCM | 0.7%                       | 30.6%                  |
| CCA | 0.0%                       | 0.1%                   |
| WTR | 0.0%                       | 0.0%                   |
| CE  | 0.0%                       | 3.5%                   |
| PPC | 0.0%                       | 0.0%                   |
| BIO | 0.0%                       | 0.0%                   |

## Page 66

### Revenue

The key indicators of the taxonomy-eligible and aligned revenue is produced from the ratio of the revenue from taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned economic activities in a financial year to the total revenue. Consolidated revenue in accordance with IAS 1.82 (a) totalling € 931.5 million is used as the denominator here.

The following categories are classed for Vienna Airport as taxonomy-relevant economic activities for reporting the key revenue indicators:

- CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology" (Vienna Airport operates a free-standing photovoltaic system on an area covering approximately 45 hectares, while electricity is also generated using photovoltaic energy at Malta Airport)
- CCM 6.17. "Low carbon airport infrastructure" (fixed Hz system to supply airline customers with ground power)
- CCM 6.20. "Air transport ground handling services" (services of ground and cargo handling)
- CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" (the Flughafen Wien Group rents out buildings, parking spaces and spaces dedicated to shopping and food and beverages)
- CCA 13.1. "Creative, arts and entertainment activities" (Visitors' World at Vienna Airport)

Services of the economic activities CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology" and CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" fulfil the criteria of taxonomy alignment. The stand-alone photovoltaic system on the site of Vienna Airport generates electricity using photovoltaic technology that is used for the company's own requirements and is also fed into the electricity grid. The activity CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" is sometimes assigned relevant rental revenue from Office Park 4, which meets the criteria for sustainable property (for example, the building is in the upper 15% of the national or regional building stock).

The revenue from the taxonomy-eligible economic activities amounted to € 314.4 million in total in the 2023 financial year and thus account for 33.8% of total revenue. The revenue from taxonomy-aligned economic activities amounted to € 2.6 million and thus 0.3%.

### CapEx

The key CapEx indicators represent the proportion of capital expenditure used on acquiring assets or processes that are associated with a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned economic activity, plus individual CapEx that relates to the purchase of products from taxonomy-aligned economic activities and individual measures that lead to a low-carbon activity or a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The basis (denominator) for capital expenditure corresponds with the additions to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment property reported in the consolidated statements of changes in non-current assets (each including IFRS 16). Advance payments are not taken into account.

All of the capital expenditure of the Flughafen Wien Group, including advance payments, totalled € 107 million in the 2023 financial year, the capital expenditure in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, excluding advance payments, amounted to € 99.6 million. The proportion of taxonomy-eligible CapEx is calculated at 22.6%, that of the taxonomy-aligned CapEx was 8.7%.

As in the previous year, the following categories were classed as taxonomy-relevant in the 2023 reporting year:

- CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology" (investments in the photovoltaic systems of up to 45 MW peak)
- CCM 6.5. "Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles" (investments in e-mobility, vehicle classes M1 and N1)

## Page 67

- CCM 6.15. "Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport" (charging stations are installed at Vienna Airport for the Flughafen Wien Group and for companies based at the site)
- CCM 6.17. "Low carbon airport infrastructure" (installation of the infrastructure for the fixed supply of aircraft with ground power)
- CCM 7.3. "Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment" (conversion and renovation works for retrofitting to more energy-efficient light sources)
- CCM 7.5. "Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings" (installation of smart meters for heating, cooling and electricity, building automation and control systems)
- CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" (building investments that are directly related to taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned output)

As a result of the expansion of the environmental goals, capital expenditure for

CCM 6.20. "Air transport ground handling services" (ground and cargo handling)

were classed as taxonomy-relevant in 2023. There was only one possible allocation to a taxonomy-eligible activity for each assets purchase, which means double counting was avoided. No additions of CapEx plans to expand taxonomy eligibility or taxonomy alignment were considered in the numerator, as no relevant plans are in place.

Capital expenditure for the expansion of the photovoltaic systems at the Vienna Airport, Bad Vöslau and Malta sites are regarded as taxonomy-aligned here (CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology"), investments for charging stations (CCM 16.15. "Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport"), investments for smart meters (CCM 7.5. "Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings") and investments in Office Park 4 (CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings").

### OpEx

Taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure represents the proportion of the operating expenses that relates to assets or processes that are associated with environmentally sustainable economic activities or that relates to individual operating expenses for the purchase of products from taxonomy-aligned economic activities and individual measures that lead to a low-carbon activity or a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The definition of OpEx in accordance with the EU taxonomy includes direct, non-capitalised research and development costs (including direct personnel costs), maintenance and repairs (including direct personnel costs), short-term leases, building renovation work and other direct expenses relating to day-to-day servicing. Depreciation, amortisation and impairments, general personnel, commodity, selling and administrative expenses etc. are not included. The definition of operating expenditure in accordance with the EU Taxonomy is thus significantly different from the definition of operating expenditure that is used in the rest of the management report.

To calculate the basis, the sum of the above expenses was determined using detailed analyses. The operating expenses calculated within the meaning of the Taxonomy Regulation amounted to € 74.3 million. The proportion of the taxonomy-eligible OpEx amounted to 34.1%, that of the taxonomy-aligned OpEx came to 0.7%.

The following economic activities represent taxonomy-relevant OpEx in the Flughafen Wien Group:

- CE 3.4. "Maintenance of roads and motorways" (operating expenses for maintaining the apron and the runways)
- CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology" (maintenance and repair of the photovoltaic systems)

## Page 68

- CCM 6.5. "Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles" (operating expenses according to the EU Taxonomy definition for electrical vehicles of classes M1 and N1)
- CCM 6.15. "Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport" (operating expenses according to the EU Taxonomy definition for the installation, modernisation, maintenance and operation of charging stations)
- CCM 6.20. "Air transport ground handling services" (operating expenses for performing ground and cargo handling services)
- CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" (maintenance, repair and building renovation measures that are directly related to a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned performance)
- CCA 13.1. "Creative, arts and entertainment activities" (operating expenses according to the EU Taxonomy Regulation for Visitors' World)

OpEx in connection with the economic activities CCM 4.1. "Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology" (maintenance and repair of the photovoltaic systems) CCM 6.15. "Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport" (operating expenses according to the EU Taxonomy definition for the installation, modernisation, maintenance and operation of charging stations) and CCM 7.7. "Acquisition and ownership of buildings" (maintenance, repair and building renovation measures that are directly related to a taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned performance) is regarded as taxonomyaligned here.

### Review of the technical criteria

To review whether the taxonomy-eligible economic activities do not significantly harm other environmental goals, the defined technical screening activities were examined and additionally a climate risk analysis was conducted that took into account the climate risks set out in the Taxonomy Regulation to see whether the "do no significant harm" (DNSH) criteria are fulfilled. The site-specific risks were examined and standard scenarios were analysed. The climate risk analysis was reviewed and parts of it were revised in 2023.

For the relevant system elements, all systems at Vienna Airport that are relevant for the performance of the taxonomy-eligible activities at the airport are compiled in the climate risk and vulnerability analysis. The following system elements were defined for this purpose:

- Airport infrastructure aircraft movement area and runways
- Airport infrastructure terminal infrastructure
- Operational buildings
- Parking spaces
- Photovoltaic systems
- Passenger transport infrastructure
- Electricity supply
- Water supply
- Passenger handling process
- Aircraft handling process
- Employees

The risk objects of Vienna Airport are exposed to different climate-related risks. All of the risks that have exert an influence on the operational activity of Vienna Airport are analysed in the climate risk and vulnerability analysis. The following climate-related risks are considered in the analysis:

- Cold waves
- Heat waves / heat stress
- Heavy precipitation rain
- Floods surface water flooding, groundwater

## Page 69

- Heavy precipitation hail
- Heavy precipitation snow/ice
- Forest fire
- Changes in wind structures/patterns
- Storms
- Tornadoes

Greenhouse gas scenarios at the global level are used to record the impacts of future human activity. As required in the Climate Delegated Act, different development pathways were considered.

Two scenarios are selected as the basis of the analysis: one scenario that includes effective climate protection measures (Representative Concentration Pathway, RCP 4.5), in which emissions even out at roughly half of today's levels by 2080 and an environmentally detrimental scenario that might occur if greenhouse gas emissions continue unabated (RCP 8.5).

Based on the system elements that have been identified and the relevant climate-related risks, an analysis was conducted drawing on expert forecasts and specialists in the company that shows what impacts appear possible from today's perspective for the Flughafen Wien Group in the next 10 years (current risk) and beyond (future risk). A distinction was drawn here between low, medium and high risk.

Heavy precipitation – snow/ice was identified as a short-term medium risk, where medium risks emerge in the long term primarily from hail, changes in wind structures/patterns, storms and tornadoes.

### Minimum safeguards

FWAG carries out a due diligence test regarding the fulfilment of the minimum criteria for social and governance aspects (minimum safeguards). The due diligence involves assessing compliance with the minimum protection requirements that result from the standards of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights with special reference to the eight labour conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). A special focus is placed here on the company-wide implementation of processes and compliance with guidelines and directives in the areas of human rights, corruption, tax and fair competition. Fulfilling the required minimum safeguards is a prerequisite for being able to classify an economic activity as taxonomy-aligned and thus as environmentally sustainable.

The requirements relating to the wide variety of subject areas are included in our organisation handbook. A whistle-blower hotline has been in operation since autumn 2015. Possible violations and tip-offs can be reported here, where the information provided can relate not only to the Flughafen Wien Group, but also all other stakeholders (including suppliers).

As a sectoral contracting entity, Vienna Airport is also subject to the Bundesvergabegesetz (Austrian Federal Public Procurement Act). The act also requires contractors to be examined, in relation among other things to authorisation, professional reliability, financial, economic and technical performance, and standards for quality assurance and environmental management. The suitability of suppliers is checked in the course of invitations to tender, including by means of queries on relevant platforms. Further analyses are carried out in the event of concrete allegations. Safety culture is particularly important at the airport itself, as safety and security are essential for smooth airport operations.

## Page 70

### Standard reporting form for nuclear energy and fossil gas

| Row | Nuclear energy related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |    |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 1   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstra- tion and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.                                                                                      | No |
| 2   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. | No |
| 3   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear in- stallations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades.                        | No |
|     | Fossil gas related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |    |
| 4   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of elec- tricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                         | No |
| 5   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and op- eration of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                | No |
| 6   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and op- eration of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                  | No |

## Page 71

| Financial Year                                                                                                                             | 2023      |                 |                                    | Substantial contribution criteria |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | Financial Year                                                                                                                              |           | Substantial contribution criteria |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   | Financial Year          |                                                                      | 2023                            |                                                                                                                 |           | Substantial contribution criteria |                                          |                                  |                                  |               | DNSH criteria ('Does Not Significantly<br>Harm') |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|---------------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------|----------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|----------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------|------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------|----------------|--------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------|------|---|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                    | Code (2)  | Turnover (3)    | Proportion of turnover, Year N (4) | Climate Change Mitigation (5)     | Climate Change Adaptation (6) | Water (7)     | Pollution (8) | Circular Economy (9) | Biodiversity(10) | Climate Change Mitigation (11) | Climate Change Adaptation (12)                | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular Economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum Safeguards (17) | Proportion aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) Turnover, Year N-1 (18) | Category enabling Activity (19) | Category transitional Activity (20) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                     | Code (2)  | CapEx (3)                         | Proportion of turnover, Year N (4)                                                                               | Climate Change Mitigation (5) | Climate Change Adaptation (6) | Water (7)  | Pollution (8)                                 | Circular Economy (9) | Biodiversity(10) | Climate Change Mitigation (11) | Climate Change Adaptation (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular Economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum Safeguards (17) | Proportion aligned (A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) Turnover, Year N-1 (18) | Category enabling Activity (19) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                         | Code (2)  | OpEx (3)                          | Proportion of<br>turnover, Year N (4)    | Climate Change<br>Mitigation (5) | Climate Change<br>Adaptation (6) | Water (7)     | Pollution (8)                                    | Circular Economy (9) | Biodiversity(10) | Climate Change<br>Mitigation (11) | Climate Change<br>Adaptation (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular<br>Economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum<br>Safeguards (17) | Proportion aligned (A.1.)<br>or eligible (A.2.) Turnover,<br>Year N-1 (18) | Category enabling<br>Activity (19) | Category transitional |      |   |  |
|                                                                                                                                            |           | in €<br>million | %                                  | Y; N;<br>N/EL                     | Y; N;<br>N/EL                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL        | Y; N;            | Y/N                            | Y/N                                           | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                   | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                    | E                               |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           | in € mil-lion                     | %                                                                                                                | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL                    | Y; N; N/EL | Y; N; N/EL                                    | Y; N; N/EL           | Y; N; N/EL       | Y/N                            | Y/N                            | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                   | Y/N               | Y/N                     | %                                                                    | E                               |                                                                                                                 |           | in €<br>mil-<br>lion              | %                                        | Y; N;<br>N/EL                    | Y; N;<br>N/EL                    | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N;<br>N/EL                                    | Y; N;<br>N/EL        | Y; N;            | Y/N                               | Y/N                               | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                      | Y/N               | Y/N                        | %                                                                          | E                                  |                       |      |   |  |
| Text                                                                                                                                       |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                             |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 | A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                 |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                            |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                                               |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 | A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                   |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| A1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                                              |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology                                                                                  | CCM 4.1.  | 7.5                               | 7.5%                                                                                                             | Y                             | N N/EL                        | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 17.8%                                                                |                                 | Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology                                                      | CCM 4.1.  | 0.1                               | 0.2%                                     | Y                                | N                                | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                                 | Y                                 | Y          | Y              | Y                        | Y                 | Y                          | 0.0%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology                                                                                 | CCM 4.1.  | 0.4             | 0.0%                               | Y                                 | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                                             | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                                                      | CCM 6.15. | 0.1                               | 0.1%                                                                                                             | Y N/EL                        | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 0.0%                                                                 | E                               | Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                          | CCM 6.15. | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                     | Y                                | N/EL                             | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                                 | Y                                 | Y          | Y              | Y                        | Y                 | Y                          | 0.0%                                                                       | E                                  |                       |      |   |  |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                     | CCM 7.7.  | 2.2             | 0.2%                               | Y                                 | N                             | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                                             | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 0.2%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regula-tion and con-trolling energy performance of buildings | CCM 7.5.  | 0.1                               | 0.1%                                                                                                             | Y N/EL                        | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 0.0%                                                                 | E                               | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                          | CCM 7.7.  | 0.4                               | 0.5%                                     | Y                                | N                                | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                                 | Y                                 | Y          | Y              | Y                        | Y                 | Y                          | 0.5%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                |           | 2.6             | 0.3%                               | 0                                 | 0                             | 0             | 0             | 0                    | 0                |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.2%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                      | CCM 7.7.  | 1.0                               | 1.0%                                                                                                             | Y N/EL                        | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             | Y                              | Y                              | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 0.6%                                                                 |                                 | OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                         |           | 0.5                               | 0.7%                                     | 0                                | 0                                | 0             | 0                                                | 0                    | 0                |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.5%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Of which Enabling                                                                                                                          |           | 0.0             | 0.0%                               |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | 0.0%                                                                                                                                        |           |                                   | CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                         |                               | 8.7                           | 8.7%       | 0                                             | 0                    | 0                | 0                              | 0                              | 0          |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 | 18.5%     |                                   | Of which Enabling                        |                                  | 0.0                              | 0.0%          |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       | 0.0% | E |  |
| Of which Transitional                                                                                                                      |           | 0.0             | 0.0%                               |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | 0.0%                                                                                                                                        |           |                                   | Of which Enabling                                                                                                |                               | 0.2                           | 0.2%       |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 | 0.0%      | E                                 | Of which Transitional                    |                                  | 0.0                              | 0.0%          |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       | 0.0% |   |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                     |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | Of which Transitional                                                                                                                       |           | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                                                                                             |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 | A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)          |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
|                                                                                                                                            |           |                 |                                    | EL;<br>N/EL                       | EL;<br>N/EL                   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL          | EL;<br>N/EL      |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                      |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 |           |                                   |                                          | EL;<br>N/EL                      | EL;<br>N/EL                      | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL;<br>N/EL                                      | EL;<br>N/EL          | EL;<br>N/EL      |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Low carbon airport infrastructure                                                                                                          | CCM 6.17. | 1.3             | 0.1%                               | EL                                | EL                            | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.2%                                                                 |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  | EL; N/EL                      | EL; N/EL                      | EL; N/EL   | EL; N/EL                                      | EL; N/EL             | EL; N/EL         |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 | Maintenance of roads and motorways                                                                              | CE 3.4.   | 2.6                               | 3.5%                                     | N/EL                             | N/EL                             | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | EL N/EL          |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.0%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Air transport ground handling services                                                                                                     | CCM 6.20. | 139.8           | 15.0%                              | EL                                | N/EL                          | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles                                                                       | CCM 6.5.  | 0.1                               | 0.1%                                                                                                             | EL N/EL                       | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.9%                                                                 |                                 | Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles                                           | CCM 6.5.  | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                     | EL                               | N/EL                             | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.0%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and con-trolling energy performance of buildings | CCM 7.5.  | 0.0             | 0.0%                               | EL                                | EL                            | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                                                      | CCM 6.15. | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                                                                                             | EL N/EL                       | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.1%                                                                 |                                 | Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport                                          | CCM 6.15. | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                     | EL                               | N/EL                             | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.0%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                     | CCM 7.7.  | 172.8           | 18.6%                              | EL                                | EL                            | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 19.0%                                                                |                                 |                                     | Low carbon airport infrastructure                                                                                                           | CCM 6.17. | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                                                                                             | EL                            | EL N/EL                       | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.4%                                                                 |                                 | Air transport ground handling services                                                                          | CCM 6.20. | 6.2                               | 8.3%                                     | EL                               | N/EL                             | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.0%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Creative, arts and entertainment activities                                                                                                | CCA 13.1. | 0.5             | 0.1%                               | N/EL                              | EL                            | N/EL          | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 |                                     | Air transport ground handling services                                                                                                      | CCM 6.20. | 4.1                               | 4.2%                                                                                                             | EL N/EL                       | N/EL                          | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                          | CCM 7.7.  | 16.6                              | 22.3%                                    | EL                               | EL                               | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 23.3%                                                                      |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Turnoverof Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)                        |           | 314.4           | 33.8%                              | 0                                 | 0                             | 0             | 0             | 0                    | 0                |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 19.2%                                                                |                                 |                                     | Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment                                                                         | CCM 7.3.  | 0.6                               | 0.6%                                                                                                             | EL                            | EL N/EL                       | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 0.0%                                                                 |                                 | Creative, arts and entertainment activities                                                                     | CCA 13.1. | 0.0                               | 0.1%                                     | N/EL                             | EL                               | N/EL          | N/EL                                             | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 0.1%                                                                       |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| A. OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                        |           | 317.0           | 34.0%                              | 0                                 | 0                             | 0             | 0             | 0                    | 0                |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 19.4%                                                                |                                 |                                     | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regula-tion and con-trolling energy performance of buildings | CCM 7.5.  | 0.0                               | 0.0%                                                                                                             | EL                            | EL N/EL                       | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 1.0%                                                                 |                                 | OpExof Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |           | 25.4                              | 34.1%                                    | 0                                | 0                                | 0             | 0                                                | 0                    | 0                |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 23.4%                                                                      |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| B.TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                         |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                                      | CCM 7.7.  | 17.7                              | 17.8%                                                                                                            | EL                            | EL N/EL                       | N/EL       | N/EL                                          | N/EL                 | N/EL             |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         | 15.7%                                                                |                                 | A. OpEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                             |           | 25.9                              | 34.8%                                    | 0                                | 0                                | 0             | 0                                                | 0                    | 0                |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            | 23.9%                                                                      |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                               |           | 614.5           | 66.0%                              |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           |                                   | CapExof Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                               | 22.5                          | 22.6%      |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 | 18.1%     |                                   | B.TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES       |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| TOTAL                                                                                                                                      |           | 931.5           | 100.0%                             |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           |                                   | A. CapEx of Taxonomy eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                             |                               | 31.2                          | 31.3%      |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 | 36.6%     |                                   | OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities |                                  | 48.4                             | 65.2%         |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| B.TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                                         |           |                 |                                    |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 | TOTAL                               |                                                                                                                                             | 74.3      | 100%                              |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                                  |           | 68.4            | 68.7%                              |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |
| TOTAL                                                                                                                                      |           | 99.6            | 100%                               |                                   |                               |               |               |                      |                  |                                |                                               |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |           |                                   |                                                                                                                  |                               |                               |            |                                               |                      |                  |                                |                                |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                      |                                 |                                                                                                                 |           |                                   |                                          |                                  |                                  |               |                                                  |                      |                  |                                   |                                   |            |                |                          |                   |                            |                                                                            |                                    |                       |      |   |  |

## Page 72

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 73

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 74

# S o c i a l is s u e s a n d e m pl o y e e m a t t e r s

The average number of employees (FTEs) of the Flughafen Wien Group (fully consolidated companies) increased by 8.1% from 4,696 to 5,074 employees in 2023. The number of employees (headcount) was 7,131, a year-on-year increase of 8.5%. As at 31 December 2023, there were 5,218 employees in the Flughafen Wien Group, 364 more than the previous year (4,854 employees).

| Average number of employees by segment (FTE) | 2023  | Change | 2022  |
|----------------------------------------------|-------|--------|-------|
| Airport                                      | 538   | -1.2%  | 545   |
| Handling & Security Services                 | 2,915 | 9.4%   | 2,666 |
| Retail & Properties                          | 178   | 3.7%   | 171   |
| Malta                                        | 391   | 16.6%  | 336   |
| Other Segments                               | 1,051 | 7.5%   | 978   |
| Total                                        | 5,074 | 8.1%   | 4,696 |

# F i n d a n d r e ta in e m pl o y e e s

Employees are a central resource, as the success of a service company depends decisively on the specialist competence and experience as well as the motivation and commitment of each and every individual employee.

The motto for 2023 was "Find and retain employees". The company continued its path to recovery. 2023 was a successful year both on the traffic side and on the passenger side. The foundation for the outstanding operational performance and the increased business volume is created by the employees. It has been especially challenging to successfully fill the jobs in the operations area again after the pandemic and also to recruit skilled employees both in technical areas and in IT. Successful employer branding measures and active recruitment searches played their part in the smooth conduct of the operations. The basis for this was a new employer campaign launched at the start of the year: "VIE, like nowhere else – Working at Vienna Airport". Recruitment events organised by the Group in the form of "Airport Job Days" were another measure used to develop the employer profile both externally and internally. The start of a trainee programme for construction specialists as well as a large variety of initiatives for IT and technical professions (exhibiting at trade fairs, cooperating with schools, promoting careers in technical subjects and IT for girls) contributed to the success. Retaining the loyalty of employees to the company was another focus of the work. The expansion of structured networks for exchanging experience across related functions throughout the entire Group and with external companies was driven forward in 2023. The continuous professional development of the executives was maintained in the form of Leadership Days in 2023.

In addition to the collective bargaining wage increase of 5.6% with effect from 1 January 2023 that was agreed at the start of February 2022, wages and salaries were raised by a further 11.8% with effect from 1 May 2023. The collective bargaining wage increases had been postponed since 1 May 2020 on account of the pandemic. The entry-level remuneration and trainee pay packages were additionally raised significantly in the interests of remaining competitive.

Around € 1.5 million was spent on education and further training at the Vienna site in 2023, which corresponds to an investment of around € 330 per head in our future.

The training of apprentices and trainees continues to play an important role. Apprentices and trainees receive theoretical and practical training at the relevant vocational colleges and on site from our own specialists and trainers. Moreover, there are options for apprenticeships combined with the chance to complete the school leaving examination. Personal development and social skills are another focus of our training. Separate key topics are covered each training year in several seminars and workshops. In

## Page 75

the course of a three-week exchange programme (Erasmus+), the apprentices and trainees can gain their first work experience abroad and get to know other companies and cultures.

Around € 0.3 million was invested in training at the Malta site (2022: € 0.2 million), with most of the training that was conducted focusing on workplace health and safety, training for the company's fire brigade and rescue department and other training (e.g. crisis management, technical and other training). In total, 16,047 hours of training (2022: 11,463) were conducted.

# E m pl o y e e f o u n d a ti o n

FWAG founded an independent employee foundation more than 20 years ago, which holds 10% of the shares in the company and pays out the distributed dividends to the employees. 2023 saw a dividend paid out to our employees for the first time since the pandemic. A total of € 6.5 million for the 2022 financial year was distributed, which per head is equivalent on average to around 78% of a basic monthly wage or salary in 2022.

# V o l u n t a r y be n e fi t s

For all employees of FWAG who joined before 1 November 2014, the company transfers 2.5% of the monthly salary to a company pension fund as a supplement to the statutory pension insurance. Employees also receive an allowance if they take out additional accident or health insurance policies.

Employees of Malta Airport are granted defined benefit pension subsidies based on collective agreements.

Voluntary benefits aim to enhance motivation and identification with the company. Examples include free transport to and from work on the City Airport Train (CAT) and on buses from and to Vienna and the neighbouring communities. Financial support for employee meals is provided in the form of several works canteens and a voucher system. The Vienna Airport Health Centre provides comprehensive medical care with appointments on short notice for employees.

# W o r k a n d fa m il y

Family-friendly policies of the company are of crucial importance for an appropriate work-life balance. We have held "Work and Family" certification since 2015, and this was awarded to us again in 2023. Initiatives such as care for employees' children on days with no (pre)school were also carried out again in 2023. The support for caring for relatives and the offering of the employee assistance programme (EAP) were also taken up by numerous employees in 2023.

Day-care facilities are available for the children of all employees of the companies at the Vienna site. The extended, flexible opening hours provide employees even in shift jobs with reliable supervision for their children once they start crawling. Vienna Airport subsidises this for its own employees.

## Page 76

## W o r k pl a c e h e a l t h a n d s a f et y – pr e v en t iv e s e r v i c e s

Despite the increase in headcount, the number of reportable accidents at work remained roughly the same. This is confirmed in the rate per 1,000 employees. Further preventive measures and evaluations continued to be undertaken to prevent accidents. Occupational safety is a permanent and integral part of the target agreements for the management. The safety specialists conduct site inspections to ensure that the measures designed to prevent risks at the workplaces are implemented and effective. In some areas, the psychological stress was re-evaluated by occupational psychologists. The large number of new staff also led to an increased need for training on "working safely", which was covered by the preventive services. The range of advice and training in the form of statements on construction projects, hazard assessments, accident analyses, first aid education and training, ergonomics workshops, stop-smoking seminars, apprentice week, check-ups, measurements and Group-wide implementation of vaccination drives is being continuously expanded.

| Vienna site          | 2023 | Change | 2022 | 2021 | 2020 | 2019 |
|----------------------|------|--------|------|------|------|------|
| Reportable accidents | 134  | -0.7%  | 135  | 83   | 71   | 164  |
| Per 1,000 employees  | 28.8 | -7.6%  | 31.2 | 18.4 | 14.0 | 29.9 |

# D i v e r si t y

Diversity is a central issue for FWAG. Its importance is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that over 74 nationalities are currently represented among the workforce of FWAG and its subsidiaries. All service processes run smoothly in spite of the great cultural diversity thanks primarily to the comprehensive training measures that make it easier for employees to integrate and understand their duties. A successful project in this respect that was launched in 2022 and continued in 2023 was the integration of weekend workers from eastern Slovakia to cover the peak summer period.

The proportion of women within the Flughafen Wien Group was approximately 27% in 2023. This can be attributed to the proportion of specialist, industry-specific activities in airport operations – two-thirds of the workforce perform heavy manual labour. In order to make Vienna Airport a more attractive employer also for people with family care-giving duties, specific measures have been implemented to support work-life balance, and suitable career opportunities have been created as well. It is a clear goal of the company to increase the diversity of the workforce – especially in management positions. It has been cited as an example of this that the proportion of women across all four management levels is currently around 16%, and a significant increase constitutes a strategic goal. Equal opportunities and equal treatment at the workplace are among the core value of the Flughafen Wien Group. As at the end of the reporting period, the proportion of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board of FWAG who are female remained unchanged at 40%.

With regard to people with special needs, Vienna Airport works intensively together with various charities, associations and institutions to continually improve barrier-free access. Numerous individual measures relating to the priority areas of facilities, signage, lifts, stairs, parking and toilets have been jointly decided upon and implemented.

# F l e x ib le w o r k in g t i me m o d e ls

Flexible and individualised working time models meet the needs of employees to the best possible extent. Flexitime schemes are increasingly used primarily in the company's commercial functions. In addition, the option was created for all employees to use pay components (e.g. service anniversary bonuses) as time off.

## Page 218

# Risks of future development

# R is k m a n a g e m e n t s y s t em ( RM S )

The Flughafen Wien Group (FWAG) has established a risk management system (RMS) that identifies, analyses and assesses all relevant aspects and handles them using suitable measures. This system is shown in the following diagram:

Image /page/217/Figure/4 description: The image shows a pyramid diagram illustrating the risk management process. The left side of the image has a vertical bar labeled "Risk management guideline". The right side of the image has a vertical bar labeled "Risk and process management software". The pyramid is divided into several levels, each representing a stage in the risk management process. The top level is labeled "Risk strategy", followed by "Risk management structure", and then "Risk management cycle". The bottom level is divided into four sections: "Riskidentification", "Risk assessment & -aggregation", "Risk reporting", and "Risk control & assignment of measures". A circular arrow connects "Riskidentification" and "Risk assessment & -aggregation", indicating a continuous feedback loop.

Source: adapted from Denk, Exner-Merkelt, Ruthner (2008): Corporate Risk Management

The RSM for the entire Group is based on the "Standard for Enterprise Risk Management" of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and is implemented in a policy.

Risk owners and risk officers in the business units and affiliated companies are responsible for implementing the policy. The risk management cycle, consisting of risk identification, risk assessment and aggregation, risk control and assignment of measures, and reporting, is run on a regular basis. The entire RMS is documented using process and risk management software to provide a central database for all identified risks and associated measures. The internal control system (ICS) covers aspects of risk management in order to ensure the reliability of operational reporting and compliance with the associated laws and regulations and to protect the assets. In addition, the internal audit department regularly evaluates business practices and organisational processes for compliance with Group guidelines, security and usefulness. The existing systems are evaluated on a regular basis and developed further as required. Risk management is complemented by Group-wide innovation management, which is used to identify new earnings potential in all areas of the company at an early stage and to develop them to market readiness. Malta Airport has issued its own risk management policy, which is based on the uniform Group-wide standards referred to above and is located within strategic controlling. This coordinates all risk management activities on a central basis.

## Page 219

# E c o n o m i c a n d po li t ic a l r is k s

The development of business is significantly influenced by the global, European and regional dynamics in aviation, which are in turn heavily dependent on general economic conditions. Economic fluctuations can therefore have a decisive influence on the company's business performance. Russia's attack on Ukraine, the Israeli offensive in Gaza as a reaction to the terrorist act committed by Hamas in October 2023 and the persistently high inflation rates are the issues that are dominating the agenda at both European and national level at the moment. The important topic of sustainability in aviation is considered in detail in the "Environmental risks" section.

The overall risk position of the FWAG Group is constantly changing. One effect resulting from the continued easing of the Covid-19 pandemic is that risk is being reduced significantly. The Russian war of aggression in Ukraine, the new military conflict in Gaza as well as persistently high inflation continue to have an adverse impact, on the other hand. In particular, the current closure of Ukrainian air space and the existing ban on Western airlines from entering Russian air space are resulting in occasionally much longer travel times to East and Southeast Asia and thus in negative impacts also on FWAG's business performance. Civil aircraft are also not flying over the conflict region in Gaza at the moment, which is, however, having only a minor effect on travel times because of the limited size of the conflict region. Negative impacts are also arising from the loss or sharp decline in Russian, Ukrainian and, in part, Israeli passengers.

How these conflicts will develop is very difficult to foresee. Essentially, it is conceivable both that the general conditions will be exacerbated (for example if the Gaza conflict expands to other conflict areas in the region) and that tensions will subside (especially if the parties in the conflict reach an agreement).

The Russian war of aggression in particular is having a severe impact on Austrian, European and global economic output. The drastic rises in energy prices and uncertainties of supply have driven inflation rates in the last few years to heights that have not been seen in decades. They are only slowly returning to pre-crisis levels and the inflation target of the ECB of 2%. The high price rises in conjunction with the countermeasures employed by the central banks in the form of higher base rates are causing an economic slowdown, which is also having negative effects on Vienna Airport. Similarly, the higher energy prices and personnel costs are resulting in rising expenses. These developments are being countered, however, with measures such as increasing energy efficiency and in-house power generation.

Further political tension and terrorist threats in individual countries and regions of the world also have a negative impact on bookings in the respective tourist destinations. In the past, however, it has been observed that such declines were of a short-term nature or were compensated by other destinations. Negative sales effects are possible in the duty free business if passengers travel to EU destinations instead of travelling to non-EU destinations.

# L e g a l r i s ks

At the EU level, significant legislative proposals have not been pursued in the current legislative period despite extensive consultations. These include in particular the Airports Charges Directive, the Slots Regulation and the Groundhandling Services Directive. It can therefore be expected that the next EU Commission will take up these dossiers again. Given the legislative process, however, these regulations and directives are unlikely to enter into force before 2027. It is already known that the Commission has plans to implement a new Aviation Security Strategy. This essentially envisages significantly raising the technical standards for security checks, which would result in massive costs for procuring new equipment (body scanners, CT scanners, EDS Standard 3) as well as increased energy costs and operational changes. A legislative proposal is not expected until 2025, however, after the new Commission has started its work. Implementation is currently planned to take place as early as 2027 to 2030, however.

## Page 220

Environmental and climate issues remain a key area of focus at both national and European level. In Austria, the government decided to increase the air travel levy, while the eco-social tax reform took effect on 1 January 2022. Corporation tax will be cut from 25% to 23% in two stages. Moreover, national carbon pricing was introduced in October 2022 (please see the sub-section on "Environmental risks" for more information).

In July 2021, the EU Commission presented the legislative package "Fit for 55" aimed at achieving the targets of the European Green Deal. This contains measures that will significantly increase the costs of aviation, such as gradually introducing a kerosene tax (still under negotiation), applying a considerably higher price to certificates in the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and integrating CORSIA, a mandatory blending quota for sustainable aviation fuels (ReFuel EU Aviation) (resolved) as well as issuing a directive on establishing infrastructure for sustainable fuels (AFIR, resolved). The revision of the AFIR that is envisaged contains in particular the obligations for airports to be able to supply stationary aircraft with electricity at all gate parking positions by 2025 and at all remote positions by 2030. In addition, a further obligation is being discussed in conjunction with the revision of the TEN-T Regulation that envisages the installation of pre-conditioned air (PCA) systems at all contact stands by 2030.

The planned measures increase the risk of a unilateral competitive disadvantage for European airlines and European hubs in relation to non-European competitors and the risk that air traffic flows will be displaced. The associated investments and follow-up costs (e.g. for upgrading the electricity grid) will entail substantial cost increases for FWAG.

Finally, new requirements for reductions in emissions can be expected in the area of climate policy. The new climate goal of the EU Commission envisages a reduction in CO2 emissions of 90% by 2040 from the level of emissions in recorded in 1990. What effects this new target will have on Vienna Airport or the site in general cannot be estimated at the moment.

New, bureaucratically complex regulations additionally apply to FWAG as a result of the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) with effect from 1 January 2024 and the application of the EU Taxonomy Regulation since 2022. As a company that falls under the scope of this legislation, FWAG is required to break down key sustainability matters as well as revenue, CapEx and OpEx in accordance with the economic activities defined by the EU Taxonomy Regulation.

Several significant elections will take place in 2024, the outcome of which will also effect European and Austrian aviation. In addition to the European Parliament elections from 6 to 9 June, Austria will also go to the polls in several elections in 2024. The election of a new National Council (the lower house of parliament) in the autumn and the subsequent formation of a new government will certainly be the most consequential for the country here. The impacts on FWAG cannot be evaluated at the moment. Very few, if any, key legislative changes that would have a significant influence on the company are expected at the federal level in the current legislative period.

In order to rule out liability on the part of management or the Management Board in the event of noncompliance with legal requirements, compliance with the regulations is ensured through internal guidelines, particularly the Issuer Compliance Guideline and the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR). The necessary non-disclosure areas have been established in FWAG to ensure compliance with insider regulations.

# M a r k e t a n d c o m pe t i ti v e r is k s

After the historic slump in aviation activities in 2020, the last few years have seen air traffic recover almost completely from the declines caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2022, the number of kilometres flown by passengers worldwide was just 5.9% lower than the figures from the previous record year of 2019, which equates to growth of 25.3% compared with the passenger-kilometres from the previous year (source: IATA, Air Passenger Market Analysis, December 2023).

## Page 221

Following a difficult year in 2022 and a hesitant start to 2023, freight traffic is now experiencing an upturn again. In December 2023, cargo volumes (in cargo tonne kilometres) were 10.8% up on the figures from December 2022. Across 2023 as a whole, however, the weak first half of the year meant that cargo volumes were still 1.9% lower than the cargo tonne kilometres (CTK) of the previous year. Compared with the pre-crisis year of 2019, CTK in 2023 was around 3.6% lower (source: IATA, Air Passenger Market Analysis, December 2023).

The outlook for 2024 and the years to come remains positive. After a particular strong year in 2023 especially in passenger air traffic, growth may weaken, but increasing volumes in the passenger and cargo sectors are also expected in the next few years. Global passenger air traffic is even forecast to double by 2040 (source: IATA, Global Outlook for Air Transport – A local sweet spot, December 2023).

Vienna Airport can also look back with satisfaction at the last financial year. Welcoming 29.5 million passengers in 2023, the airport recorded the second most successful year in its history, actually lagging only slightly behind the current record year of 2019 (31.7 million passengers). The swift recovery has shown once again that air traffic is characterised by a high degree of resilience and can bounce back from slumps within just a short time.

As the home carrier at the Vienna site, Austrian Airlines remained FWAG's largest customer with a market share of 46.9%, even if this has fallen back slightly in comparison with the previous year (-0.2 percentage points). Austrian Airlines' strategic focus and its long-term development as a strong network carrier have a significant influence on the commercial success of FWAG and are therefore under constant observation and analysis by the responsible business areas. Austrian Airlines was able to bring 2023 to a very positive close. Passenger numbers increased by 24.4% to just under 13.9 million passengers at Vienna Airport. Revenue rose by 25.4% to € 2.35 billion in 2023, while operating profit was € 127 million set against € 3 million in the previous year. Austrian took receipt of five Airbus A320neo in 2023, which made a further contribution to the rejuvenation of the fleet. AUA's long-haul fleet, which is important for the Vienna site, will also be comprehensively upgraded in the years to come. The first two of in total 11 Boeing 787- 9 Dreamliners are scheduled to join AUA in the first half of 2024 to start replacing the current long-haul fleet consisting of Boeing 767s and 777s. These investments can be seen as a substantial sign of the confidence that the Group parent Lufthansa has in the Vienna site (source: Austria Press Agency (APA) report on the expansion of the long-haul fleet).

In addition to Austrian Airlines, it is primarily the low-cost carriers (LCCs) that are of great importance for the Vienna site and that diversify the offer at Vienna Airport. As the representative of the LCCs with the highest passenger volumes, Ryanair transported just under 6.0 million passengers in 2023, an increase of 20.4% from the previous year. Its market share of 20.2% fell slightly by 0.7 percentage points from the previous year, however. Ryanair has stationed an additional aircraft at Vienna Airport for the 2023/2024 winter flight schedule. Wizz Air recorded a very positive performance at the Vienna site. While its market share increased only marginally by 0.1 percentage points, passenger numbers grew by 26.9%. As LCCs can act and react with great flexibility, adaptations can arise at any time. The developments at the LCCs also continue to be monitored closely for this reason.

Malta (fully consolidated) and Košice (recorded at equity) are also exposed to the above industry risks as well as to additional local site-specific challenges and market risks. As a traditional holiday destination, Malta Airport was very badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, but has been able to recover from the impacts again. Malta Airport handled over 7.8 million passengers in 2023, which represents growth of 33.4% from 2022 and an increase of 6.7% compared with the pre-crisis year of 2019.

As the home carrier of the airport, Air Malta is of central importance to it, but finds itself confronted by a challenging market situation. Competition at Malta Airport is particularly intense especially on account of the high proportion of low-cost carriers there. Ryanair in particular enjoys a strong market position

## Page 222

as well as the largest share of the market at the location, for example. Driven by this intense competition, Air Malta decided in January 2022 to start a restructuring process. The process that was initiated fell through, however, as the state aid involved was not approved by the EU Commission. Air Malta will consequently stop flight operations on 30 March 2024. Immediately following this, however, a new Maltese (successor) carrier will be founded called KM Malta Airlines. With the help of a sustainable strategy, this new carrier is looking to turn the situation around and lead KM Malta Airlines into a successful longterm future. Should a favourable outcome not be achieved, this would have negative repercussions on passenger traffic and thus the results of Malta Airport in the short term. In the medium and long term, however, it is assumed that new airlines or those already represented at the site would increase their capacity and service the existing demand (source: AeroInt Malta Air).

2023 also saw Košice Airport exceed pre-crisis levels, as it handled more than 620,000 passengers in the past year, which corresponds to an increase of 15.2% over the previous year and +12.0% compared with 2019. With possible airline restructuring plans, there is a risk that flights to and from regional airports may be cut or reduced. Košice's geographical proximity to Ukraine has increased this risk. What impacts the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine will have on Košice Airport will depend on how long the war lasts and how it develops.

The high level of competition between airlines has been driving price pressure on upstream service providers, such as handling services, for years. To counteract this, however, FWAG has launched a large number of measures in the last few years to increase efficiency and optimise workflows along the entire value chain that have been successfully implemented and that have resulted in a sustainable increase in productivity. Again in 2023, the handling services unit was the market leader in ramp handling as well as cargo handling at Vienna Airport. The risk of losing market share is extensively hedged by the existence of long-term service agreements with the most important key accounts as well as high quality standards. The cargo sector has suffered under the current circumstances (high inflation, weak supply and service flows, war in Ukraine, conflict in Gaza) much more than passenger traffic. For example, cargo volume at Vienna Airport declined by 2.2% in 2023 versus 2022.

In the Retail & Properties segment, FWAG rents out buildings and space that are used primarily by companies whose business development is dependent on that of air traffic (retailers, airlines, etc.). This business is therefore subject not only to the general risks of the real estate market, but also to the risks of changes in passenger volumes and changes in passengers' buying power, for example in connection with the devaluation of the relevant domestic currency against the euro (currency risks). Due to revenuebased contractual components, this is linked to effects on FWAG's revenue situation in the retail and property sectors. A major influence on the retail sector will come from the southern extension of the terminal, which is scheduled to be completed by 2027 and will entail a considerable expansion of the retail area and more generally an improvement in the shopping and restaurant options in the terminal area.

# F i n a n c e a n d i n v e s t me n t r i s k s

The FWAG treasury department is responsible for the efficient management of changes in interest rate and market risks and evaluates the respective risk positions on a regular basis as part of risk controlling. The greatest possible reduction of variable rate financial liabilities has massively reduced the potential impact of interest rate changes on FWAG. The last loan (EIB loan) was paid back in full at the end of 2023, as a result of which FWAG is free of debt as at the end of the year. Detailed information on financial risks – including liquidity risk, credit risk, changes in interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk – and the financial instruments used to counter them can be found in note (38) to the consolidated financial statements. The general and specific market risks already referred to above, in addition to country-specific political and regulatory risks in Malta and Slovakia, can adversely affect the medium-term planning of the investments in Malta and Košice airports and in extreme cases lead to impairment on assets, goodwill

## Page 223

and the carrying amounts of investments. FWAG's capex projects are exposed to various risks – including the loss of suppliers, higher construction costs or changes in planning – that could increase the intended expenditure. A full risk assessment is therefore already performed in the pre-project phase of the relevant capex project. The regulations to be complied in terms of project organisation or audits and approvals when handling construction projects are defined in the construction manual. A large number of investment projects were postponed in the course of the savings programme initiated as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, but these are now gradually being implemented, including the major project involving the southern extension of the terminal, for example.

The construction of the "Parallel runway 11R/29L" (third runway) is a key project for FWAG's long-term development and growth potential. This will continue to be pursued and planned as a top priority in line with the actual development of the number of flights as well as its cost-effectiveness. All assets were measured based on the assumption that Vienna Airport will maintain its position as an east-west hub.

In May 2023, the environmental impact assessment authority extended the completion date of the third runway project to 30 June 2033. This extension was approved because the appeal proceedings had lasted more than seven years and because air traffic collapsed after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Several complaints have again been launched against this decision, but they do not have suspensive effect. The decision on these may take several years and possibly end up being referred to the highest courts again.

# O p e r a t in g r is k s

The development of traffic is also significantly influenced by national and external factors such as terrorism, war or other latent risks (e.g. pandemics, closing of air space due to natural disasters and wars, strikes etc.). Similarly, local risks of damage, such as fire, natural disasters, accidents or terrorism at the site as well as theft of or damage to property, constitute operating risks. Global climate change can represent a risk for airport operations, also in Europe. Increasing weather extremes, such as storms, unusual levels of precipitation and longer lasting heat and cold waves can negatively impact air traffic on a short-term basis.

Vienna Airport conducts ongoing monitoring as part of its efforts to be appropriately prepared when it comes to the impact of the operating risks. Furthermore, Vienna Airport ensures it is well prepared for emergencies through appropriate emergency plans, safety and fire protection measures and high safety standards. The operating risks are covered by appropriate insurance (aviation liability insurance, terror liability insurance etc.). The energy transition in Europe and the resulting increased focus on renewable energy are reducing the system security of the European power grid due to the lower level of controllability and are raising the risk of blackouts. This risk is countered through emergency power generators and increasing in-house power generation using photovoltaic systems.

As Vienna Airport plays a critical role as a key infrastructure provider and backbone of international integration in the entire Central and Eastern European region, particularly high demands are placed on the availability, the reliability, the quality and the data security of the ICT (information and communication technology) systems that are used.

The operating risks relating to ICT were adjusted in the reporting year based on the level of cyber threat in Austria. Material operating risks in corporate risk management are the risks of a cyber-attack and the associated failure of information technology. FWAG continuously implements measures to reduce ICT risks in order to continue to guarantee maximum IT security. One such measure is the operation of a management system for information security (ISMS) and the use of a technical IT security roadmap derived from that. Extensively monitoring security incidents, regularly scanning IT infrastructure for vulnerability and replacing outdated systems (end of life) are among the measures on the IT security roadmap aimed at counteracting cyber threats.

## Page 224

FWAG is aware of the great importance of motivated and committed employees in attaining the corporate goals. In order to counteract the potential loss of know-how through turnover, numerous measures are implemented to strengthen employee retention. Furthermore, a number of measures are also implemented to increase occupational safety and to minimise absences due to illness.

# E n v ir o n m e n t a l r i s k s

FWAG is exposed in the course of its business operations to a number of environmental risks, the development of which are closely tracked. Potential impacts from climate change are continually monitored in this connection, for example. A number of potential threats caused by changes in climate conditions in the next ten years and beyond are presented using two possible scenarios in this analysis. The potential sources of risks that are analysed here include in particular increases in heat waves, increases in episodes of short, heavy rainfall, the long-term rise in the global average temperature as well as the occurrence of extreme wind conditions. Appropriate measures to counter the risk factors that are identified are evaluated on an ongoing basis and implemented if possible (e.g. possibilities for installing rainwater storage tanks and possibilities for drainage at the site to prevent damage from surface water flooding after heavy rainfall). It is not just risks but also opportunities that are considered in this connection. For example, the rise in the global average temperature creates the risk that the attractiveness of certain travel destinations will be reduced during extreme heat waves. But the tourist season in summer destinations may also be extended or new tourism regions may open up as a result.

Vienna Airport is also aware of its responsibilities when it comes to preventing or curbing climate changes and has already taken appropriate actions to this end. A comprehensive and systematic energy and environmental management system (EMS) was already established back in 2012, for example. The aim of this system is to improve energy efficiency, further reduce energy consumption and produce energy in-house from renewable sources (using photovoltaic systems). Thanks to these measures, FWAG has succeeded in running its operations as carbon-neutral since 2023.

Public desire for a reduction in flight noise is taken into account by levying noise fees as well as continually monitoring compliance with the night flight restrictions. In addition, FWAG sets great store by cooperating as a partner with the airport region in the course of the mediation procedure (dialogue forum).

Possible impacts of climate-related changes are also taken into consideration in the corporate strategy and in the long-term company planning. Similarly, environmental and climate-related risks are also accounted for when the impairment test is conducted, which therefore takes these risks into consideration with their probabilities of occurrence. As well as recognition via expected values, the impairment tests also cover direct expenses for compliance with climate targets. Environmental risks can also exert an influence on the expected useful life of assets, especially those in areas exposed to the weather.

FWAG is also exposed to a number of regulatory risks resulting from new legislation to curb climate change. These risks have already been discussed in the section "Legal risks". These impacts are also taken into consideration in the corporate strategy, the company planning and the impairment tests.

# Ge n e r a l r i s k a ss e s s m e n t

Despite the considerable crisis-related and macroeconomic challenges, the general evaluation of FWAG's risk situation does not identify any risks to the company as a going concern. Its continued existence is secured going forward.

## Page 225

# Report on the key features of the internal control system for accounting processes

In accordance with Section 82 of the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, the Management Board is responsible for developing and implementing an appropriate internal control and risk management system for accounting processes. In subsidiaries, this responsibility is fulfilled by the respective managers in strict compliance with all related Group guidelines and directives. The following section describes how these legal requirements are satisfied.

The structure and design of FWAG's ICS is defined in a policy. The objective of FWAG's ICS is to ensure the reliability of financial reporting and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The ICS in a broader sense also includes safeguarding assets and ensuring activities are recorded and invoiced correctly and in full.

The description of the major features of these internal controls is based on the structure of the internationally recognised COSO model. Accordingly, the ICS comprises the control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication and monitoring. The relevant processes involve identifying and assessing the financial and accounting risks to which the company is exposed as well as implementing appropriate controls. The control system is documented using standard software. This provides a general or department-wide overview of the status of the ICS at all times. In addition, automated workflows also inform the responsible officers of the departments and subsidiaries about any actions that are required and prompts them to perform them (e.g. to conduct assessments or carry out defined checks).

The corporate culture within which management and employees operate has a significant influence on the control environment. The company encourages the active communication and dissemination of its principal values as a means of anchoring ethics and integrity in the company and in interaction with other parties. The Code of Conduct of Flughafen Wien AG makes an important contribution here. The implementation of the ICS in accounting processes is regulated by internal guidelines and directives.

# R is k a s se s s m e n t

Materiality of risks is based on a combination of probability of occurrence and potential effects (amount of damage). The consolidated and annual financial statements provide the key criteria for these effects. To determine probability of occurrence, an expanded evaluation model with a number of qualitative aspects is used on the basis of a weighted scoring model. Account will be taken of such factors as complexity and degree of automation of processes or the presence of specific organisational backup measures. The results of this expanded risk assessment will be used as a basis for planning the effectiveness test by Internal Audit. From time to time, estimates must be made on future developments when preparing the consolidated and annual financial statements. This poses an imminent risk that the future business development may deviate from these planning assumptions. In particular, the following circumstances or positions in the consolidated financial statements are involved: employee-related provisions, the results of legal disputes, the collectability of receivables, impending losses from pending business and the valuation of investments in other companies and property, plant and equipment (see also section IV. "Judgements and estimate uncertainty" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).

## Page 236

huge amount of consideration was given to energy efficiency. Findings from the Smart AirportCity were also incorporated into this. Energy consumption is less than a third of that of conventional offices. The façade, around 60% of which is transparent, lets a huge amount of daylight into the interior of Office Park 4, and its special design also takes account of the local winds that flow around the building. The use of geothermal energy (cooling and heating with thermal energy) also plays a significant role. A photovoltaic system is also installed on the roof of Office Park 4 for optimal use of sustainable energy sources.

Future construction projects at Vienna Airport will be guided by the sustainability criteria of Office Park 4.

# A ir c r a f t n o i se m a n a g e m en t

Throughout Europe, road, construction and neighbourhood noise and rail traffic are the main causes of noise pollution, followed by air traffic. Take-offs and landings and ground noise such as taxiing movements and engine run-ups are the main sources of noise at airports. The Federal Environmental Noise Protection Regulations regulate the threshold values connected to flight noise that, to protect the local population, must not be exceeded – namely a day-evening-night noise index of 65 dB.

However, Vienna Airport's commitment goes significantly beyond these statutory requirements: the airport's noise protection programme, for example, includes the daytime protection zone with an equivalent continuous sound level of over 54 dB. The night-time protection zone starts at a continuous sound level as low as over 45 dB. In accordance with an agreement reached during the mediation process, the number of aircraft movements between 11:30 p.m. and 5:30 a.m. should remain constant at the 2009 level.

In addition, the great variety of noise prevention and protection measures agreed in close consultation with stakeholders and local residents are implemented on a continual basis in order to reduce the ground noise still further. In the performance of engine run-ups, for example, the parking positions are chosen depending on the prevailing wind conditions in such a way that local residents are disturbed as little as possible.

### FANOMOS

A flight track and noise monitoring system – FANOMOS – has been in operation at Vienna Airport since 1990. This allows arrivals and departures to be recorded and analysed as flight tracks. Compliance with the stipulated arrival and departure routes is controlled in this process, and any deviations, i.e. a plane leaving the stipulated corridors, are flagged. FANOMOS not only records flight tracks 365 days a year, but also registers the noise level of overflights on an ongoing basis using 15 fixed measuring stations set up in the environs of the airport.

### Noise-based landing fees

The aim of noise-based landing fees is to provide an incentive for airlines to use aircraft that are quieter and produce fewer emissions. The take-off and landing fees are graduated – noisy aircraft pay more, quieter aircraft pay less. The penalty/reward system is neutral in terms of costs, and the noise fees do not represent any additional source of income for the airport.

### Noise protection

The Vienna Airport noise protection programme that was started in 2005 as part of the mediation contract aims to protect the health and improve the quality of life of people who live close to the airport. Where the continuous sound level exceeds 54 dB during the day and 45 dB during the night, Vienna Airport assumes between 50% and 100% of the costs for noise protection measures, for example, the installation of soundproof windows and doors. Up to the end of 2023, building expert opinions were prepared for 6,320 properties and optimal noise protection was installed in 2,993 of these.

## Page 237

# E m is s i o n s a n d c li m a te p r o t ec t i o n

The operation of an airport, especially aircraft handling operations and landside traffic, contributes, albeit to a lesser degree, to general airborne emissions from the aviation industry.

All emissions are recorded without gaps in the area around the airport as part of air quality monitoring and through the production of an annual carbon footprint. Measures and programmes are developed on an ongoing basis with airlines to systematically minimise emissions.

### ACAS (Airport Carbon Accreditation System)

With the help of a carbon footprint, FWAG also takes part in the Airport Carbon Accreditation System (ACAS, www.airportcarbonaccreditation.org) programme managed by the Airports Council International Europe (ACI Europe). Vienna Airport was given Level 1 certification back in 2013, in 2015 there was a move up to Level 2, and in October 2016 Level 3 certification was achieved for the first time and has been reaffirmed by ACI every year since. Level 3 certification stipulates a further reduction in CO2 emissions with greater involvement of all the companies operating at the airport.

# W a s t e

Depending on the number of passengers and the services provided, rubbish and waste materials are created at commercial airports from the widest variety of areas, including terminals, offices, logistics warehouses, equipment hangars, technical stations, hotels, aircraft hangars and the aircraft themselves.

Waste management logistics comparable to those of a small town are therefore in operation at Vienna Airport. In addition to the two largest types of waste, industrial waste and waste paper/cardboard packaging, packaging waste, scrap metal and hazardous waste, such as lubricating oil and solvent residues from the maintenance of aircraft and vehicles on the ground, are also produced. All waste volumes are covered in the current waste management concept, broken down according to type of waste.

An overview of around 350 materials (from paint strippers or aluminium cans to toothbrushes or branches) and their correct disposal can be found in the "VIE Abfalltrenn-ABC" brochure ("ABC of waste sorting at Vienna Airport").

### Avoid, reduce, recycle

Waste avoidance plays the leading role in waste management at Vienna Airport. Unavoidable waste is appropriately sorted and, depending on the options available, assigned for reuse or recycling. Waste separation at the airport is carried out here in accordance with strict guidelines, which makes recycling easier and more cost-efficient. All options for efficient waste management are made use of here. Biogenic waste, glass and plastic bottles are collected separately and sent for recycling. Special environmental islands in the terminal areas also offer passengers the opportunity to dispose of their rubbish in line with the labelling. FWAG's volume of waste (Vienna site) amounted to 4,866 tonnes at the airport in 2023.

# W a t e r c o n s u mp t io n

Vienna Airport's water supply is provided by four wells owned by the airport. Not including customers, the Flughafen Wien Group's water consumption (Vienna site) in 2023 amounted to 613,429 m³ (2022 adjusted: 509,201 m³).

## Page 238

# W a s t ew a t e r

A central aspect of wastewater disposal is the complete canalisation of the sealed areas situated airside. Rainwater run-off is led from the individual drainage areas of the airport – runways, aprons and taxiways alone make up an area of more than 2.5 million square metres – to the central wastewater disposal plant. The pollution level of the wastewater is measured on line where the main collector enters the central wastewater disposal plant.

Polluted wastewater is pumped through separate pipes to the Schwechat-Mannswörth treatment plant.

As a result of the targeted separation of polluted from non-polluted wastewater, it has been possible to reduce the volume of wastewater to be processed in the treatment plant. FWAG's wastewater (Vienna site) amounted to 350,573 m³ in 2023.

# S u s ta i n a b le p r o c u r e m en t

Sustainable, environmentally friendly procurement, meaning the purchase of green products and services that are also manufactured and performed in accordance with social standards, is a key company target. The use of regional providers is also taken into account here. In Austria, the "National action plan for sustainable procurement" was launched under the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment. In this way, sustainable criteria are taken into consideration in the procurement process and the action plan is implemented jointly. The action plan has been in effect since autumn 2010 in the Federal Procurement Agency (BBG). Some procurement by the Flughafen Wien Group has been handled via the BBG. As a sectoral contracting entity, FWAG is also subject to the requirements of the Austrian Federal Public Procurement Act.

The largest suppliers in terms of order value belong to the sectors of construction, petroleum processing, metal working, special vehicles, technology and various services such as IT and airport handling. Measured in terms of order value, the majority of contractors come from the region in the immediate vicinity of the airport: around 80% of the 35 largest suppliers are from Vienna and Lower Austria, 2% from other Austrian states and the remaining 18% are predominantly from Europe.

# E U T a x o n o my

With regard to the EU Taxonomy, please see our statements in the Group management report.

# S o c i a l is s u e s a n d e m pl o y e e m a t t e r s

The average number of employees (FTEs) of Flughafen Wien AG increased from 2,657 to 2,721 employees in 2023. The number of employees (headcount) was 3,631, a year-on-year increase of 4.6%. As at the end of the reporting period on 31 December 2023, there were 2,754 employees at Flughafen Wien AG, 84 more than in the previous year (2,671 employees).

# F i n d a n d r e ta in e m pl o y e e s

Employees are a central resource, as the success of a service company depends decisively on the specialist competence and experience as well as the motivation and commitment of each and every individual employee.

The motto for 2023 was "Find and retain employees". The company continued its path to recovery. 2023 was a successful year both on the traffic side and on the passenger side. The foundation for the outstanding operational performance and the increased business volume is created by the employees. It has

## Page 239

been especially challenging to successfully fill the jobs in the operations area again after the pandemic and also to recruit skilled employees both in technical areas and in IT. Successful employer branding measures and active recruitment searches played their part in the smooth conduct of the operations. The basis for this was a new employer campaign launched at the start of the year: "VIE, like nowhere else – Working at Vienna Airport". Recruitment events organised by the Group in the form of "Airport Job Days" were another measure used to develop the employer profile both externally and internally. The start of a trainee programme for construction specialists as well as a large variety of initiatives for IT and technical professions (exhibiting at trade fairs, cooperating with schools, promoting careers in technical subjects and IT for girls) contributed to the success. Retaining the loyalty of employees to the company was another focus of the work. The expansion of structured networks for exchanging experience across related functions throughout the entire Group and with external companies was driven forward in 2023. The continuous professional development of the executives was maintained in the form of Leadership Days in 2023.

In addition to the collective bargaining wage increase of 5.6% with effect from 1 January 2023 that was agreed at the start of February 2022, wages and salaries were raised by a further 11.8% with effect from 1 May 2023. The collective bargaining wage increases had been postponed since 1 May 2020 on account of the pandemic. The entry-level remuneration and trainee pay packages were additionally raised significantly in the interests of remaining competitive.

Around € 1.5 million was spent on education and further training at the Vienna site in 2023, which corresponds to an investment of around € 330 per head in our future.

The training of apprentices and trainees continues to play an important role. Apprentices and trainees receive theoretical and practical training at the relevant vocational colleges and on site from our own specialists and trainers. Moreover, there are options for apprenticeships combined with the chance to complete the school leaving examination. Personal development and social skills are another focus of our training. Separate key topics are covered each training year in several seminars and workshops. In the course of a three-week exchange programme (Erasmus+), the apprentices and trainees can gain their first work experience abroad and get to know other companies and cultures.

# E m pl o y e e f o u n d a ti o n

FWAG founded an independent employee foundation more than 20 years ago, which holds 10% of the shares in the company and pays out the distributed dividends to the employees. 2023 saw a dividend paid out to our employees for the first time since the pandemic. A total of € 6.5 million for the 2022 financial year was distributed, which per head is equivalent on average to around 78% of a basic monthly wage or salary in 2022.

# V o l u n t a r y be n e fi t s

For all employees of FWAG who joined before 1 November 2014, the company transfers 2.5% of the monthly salary to a company pension fund as a supplement to the statutory pension insurance. Employees also receive an allowance if they take out additional accident or health insurance policies.

Voluntary benefits aim to enhance motivation and identification with the company. Examples include free transport to and from work on the City Airport Train (CAT) and on buses from and to Vienna and the neighbouring communities. Financial support for employee meals is provided in the form of several works canteens and a voucher system. The Vienna Airport Health Centre provides comprehensive medical care with appointments on short notice for employees.

## Page 240

# W o r k a n d fa m il y

Family-friendly policies of the company are of crucial importance for an appropriate work-life balance. We have held "Work and Family" certification since 2015, and this was awarded to us again in 2023. Initiatives such as care for employees' children on days with no (pre)school were also carried out again in 2023. The support for caring for relatives and the offering of the employee assistance programme (EAP) were also taken up by numerous employees in 2023.

Day-care facilities are available for the children of all employees of the companies at the Vienna site. The extended, flexible opening hours provide employees even in shift jobs with reliable supervision for their children once they start crawling. Vienna Airport subsidises this for its own employees.

## Page 241

## W o r k pl a c e h e a l t h a n d s a f et y – pr e v en t iv e s e r v i c e s

Despite the increase in headcount, the number of reportable accidents at work remained roughly the same. This is confirmed in the rate per 1,000 employees. Further preventive measures and evaluations continued to be undertaken to prevent accidents. Occupational safety is a permanent and integral part of the target agreements for the management. The safety specialists conduct site inspections to ensure that the measures designed to prevent risks at the workplaces are implemented and effective. In some areas, the psychological stress was re-evaluated by occupational psychologists. The large number of new staff also led to an increased need for training on "working safely", which was covered by the preventive services. The range of advice and training in the form of statements on construction projects, hazard assessments, accident analyses, first aid education and training, ergonomics workshops, stop-smoking seminars, apprentice week, check-ups, measurements and Group-wide implementation of vaccination drives is being continuously expanded.

| Vienna site          | 2023 | Change | 2022 | 2021 | 2020 | 2019 |
|----------------------|------|--------|------|------|------|------|
| Reportable accidents | 134  | -0.7%  | 135  | 83   | 71   | 164  |
| Per 1,000 employees  | 28.8 | -7.6%  | 31.2 | 18.4 | 14.0 | 29.9 |

# D i v e r si t y

Diversity is a central issue for FWAG. Its importance is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that over 74 nationalities are currently represented among the workforce of FWAG and its subsidiaries. All service processes run smoothly in spite of the great cultural diversity thanks primarily to the comprehensive training measures that make it easier for employees to integrate and understand their duties. A successful project in this respect that was launched in 2022 and continued in 2023 was the integration of weekend workers from eastern Slovakia to cover the peak summer period.

The proportion of women within the Flughafen Wien Group was approximately 27% in 2023. This can be attributed to the proportion of specialist, industry-specific activities in airport operations – two-thirds of the workforce perform heavy manual labour. In order to make Vienna Airport a more attractive employer also for people with family care-giving duties, specific measures have been implemented to support work-life balance, and suitable career opportunities have been created as well. It is a clear goal of the company to increase the diversity of the workforce – especially in management positions. It has been cited as an example of this that the proportion of women across all four management levels is currently around 16%, and a significant increase constitutes a strategic goal. Equal opportunities and equal treatment at the workplace are among the core value of the Flughafen Wien Group. As at the end of the reporting period, the proportion of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board of FWAG who are female remained unchanged at 40%.

# F l e x ib le w o r k in g t i me m o d e ls

Flexible and individualised working time models meet the needs of employees to the best possible extent. Flexitime schemes are increasingly used primarily in the company's commercial functions. In addition, the option was created for all employees to use pay components (e.g. service anniversary bonuses) as time off.

Part-time training, training leave models, sabbaticals and home-working are also offered.

## Page 242

# S e le c t e d i n d i c a t o r s

| Employees of Flughafen Wien AG         | 2023  | Change | 2022  |
|----------------------------------------|-------|--------|-------|
| Number of employees (average, FTE)     | 2,721 | 2.4%   | 2,657 |
| Thereof wage-earning employees         | 1,543 | 0.9%   | 1,529 |
| Thereof salaried employees             | 1,178 | 4.4%   | 1,128 |
| Number of employees (31 December, FTE) | 2,754 | 3.1%   | 2,671 |
| Thereof wage-earning employees         | 1,537 | 0.8%   | 1,525 |
| Thereof salaried employees             | 1,218 | 6.2%   | 1,146 |
| Number of employees (headcount)        | 3,631 | 4.6%   | 3,470 |
| Apprentices (average)                  | 63    | 23.0%  | 51    |
| Share of women in %                    | 12.3  | n.a.   | 12.3  |
| Training expenses in T€                | 1,435 | 58.1%  | 908   |
| Reportable accidents¹                  | 134   | -0.7%  | 135   |

1) Data from fully consolidated companies at the Vienna site

# R e s pe c t f o r h u m a n r ig h ts

The company is committed to observing and respecting human rights. FWAG and its affiliates do not have any business sites in countries with a poor understanding of human rights, but operate entirely within the European Union. As a provider of infrastructure and services, FWAG also purchases only finished products from its suppliers. Alongside the corporate values, the Code of Conduct contains important principles for the interaction of all employees with internal and external partners. As the trust of customers, shareholders, employees and the public has a material impact on the performance of the Flughafen Wien Group, integrity is a key element within the corporation.

# C o m b a t in g c o r r u pt io n a n d b r ib e ry

The company actively communicates its corporate objectives to all employees by applying clear regulations and providing regular training. Teaching basic values, such as morals, ethics and integrity in the company, and treating each other with respect is of the greatest importance here. The relevant guidelines are provided by the Code of Conduct of Flughafen Wien AG. A whistle-blower hotline has been in operation since autumn 2015. In organisational terms, the Secretary General arranges the necessary support and sees to it that conduct is in compliance with the law. The head of the department is simultaneously the senior Group compliance officer. The employees receive regular training on the contents of the Code of Conduct through an e-learning platform. As a sectoral contracting entity, for its procurement FWAG is subject to some regulations of the Austrian Federal Public Procurement Act. This implements all precautions for avoiding incipient corruption.

# I s s u er c o m p li a n c e

The obligations of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the provisions of the Stock Exchange Act on which it is based are implemented by Vienna Airport in an internal policy. To prevent abuse or forwarding of insider information, internal non-disclosure areas have been established. This covers all employees and executive bodies of FWAG working in Austria and abroad, but also third-party service providers who have potential access to inside information. A variety of organisational measures and control mechanisms have also been implemented to monitor these processes on a regular basis. Each employee who works in a compliance-relevant area thus has to complete a training programme on how to handle confidential information. In order to increase awareness of "issuer compliance" in the rest of the company, all employees are informed on this topic in the intranet and in articles in the in-house employee magazine. The local stock exchange regulations and European directives are also implemented and monitored at Malta Airport. There are internal guidelines on this that include not only the legal requirements but also a general code of conduct.

## Page 243

# Disclosures required by section 243a of the Austrian Commercial Code

# (1) Share capital and shares

The share capital of Flughafen Wien AG (FWAG) is fully paid in and amounts to € 152,670,000. It is divided into 84,000,000 bearer shares, which are securitised by a global certificate deposited with Oesterreichische Kontrollbank. All shares carry the same rights and obligations ("one share – one vote").

Further details on the articles of association and the shares are available on the FWAG website at www.viennaairport.com.

# (2) Kapitalbeteiligungen an der Gesellschaft über 10%

Im Zuge des freiwilligen öffentlichen Teilangebots mit Ablauf Februar 2023 konnte die Airports Group Europe S.a. r.l den Anteil am Flughafen Wien um weitere 3,37% erhöhen. Damit hält der Investor Airports Group Europe S.a. r.l nunmehr über 43% der Aktien der Flughafen Wien AG. Der Streubesitz ist in Folge der Transaktion auf unter 7% gesunken. Die Stadt Wien und das Land Niederösterreich halten jeweils 20,0%, die Flughafen Wien Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung hält 10,0% am Grundkapital der FWAG. Der Gesellschaft sind keine weiteren Aktionäre mit Beteiligungen am Kapital von zumindest 10,0% bekannt.

# (3) Syndication agreement

Two shareholders – NÖ Landes-Beteiligungsholding GmbH and Wien Holding GmbH – hold 40% of the company's shares in a syndicate. The syndication agreement provides for joint exercise of voting rights at the Annual General Meeting and mutual acquisition rights in the event of paid transfer of syndicated investments to third parties. Any amendments to the syndication agreement, the dissolution of the syndicate and resolutions to admit a new partner to the syndicate require unanimous approval.

# (4) Shares with special control rights

The company is not aware of any special control rights on the part of shareholders.

## (5) Control of voting rights for the shares held by the employee foundation

The voting rights for the shares held by the Flughafen Wien employee foundation are exercised by the managing board of this entity. The appointment and dismissal of the foundation's Managing Board requires the consent of the Advisory Board of Flughafen Wien Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung. The Advisory Board requires a simple majority to do so. The Advisory Board is comprised of five members, with two members each delegated by employees and the employer. These four members unanimously elect a fifth person to serve as the chair of the Advisory Board.
