## Page 62

external, these can be reported to the Company's Compliance Officer, whose contact details can also be found on the aforementioned website under Corporate Governance. If a report is made, there is a set process in place to investigate the matter.

#### Results

Because the concept is still being developed, there are no targets as of yet.

One compliance case was reported via the whistleblower system in 2023. The Compliance Officer and management team carried out a detailed investigation, assessed the results and took action. In future, the Company wants to ensure that its employees are even more aware of compliance issues such as corruption and bribery, insider training and occupational health and safety and that they are informed about potential legal risks in order to avoid breaches of compliance. This is to be achieved throughout the Group primarily using the learning management system (LMS).

## Other topics

#### VALUE CREATION

Sustainability – understood both as thinking financially in the long term as well as in its environmental aspect – is an integral part of the Viscom Group's business activities.

#### Concept

Viscom's long-term economic output is regarded as a core element of its sustainability efforts, and this has been confirmed by the materiality analysis. Neither Viscom nor its stakeholders believe that aligning the Company and corporate decisions to the topic of sustainability alone is constructive. Viscom wishes to consider both elements – sustainability and economic output – together to ensure that it is always in a position to secure jobs for the future, make investments in sustainability issues and contribute to the prosperity of society. Viscom has set itself the aim of operating profitably, measured by a positive EBIT result. The concept and measures are outlined in the Group Management Report section entitled "Business model of the Group" under "Management system".

#### Results

In the 2023 financial year, Viscom achieved positive EBIT of EUR 6,611 thousand and met the target it had set itself for economic output. Please refer to the description in the Group Management Report section entitled "Results of operations" for more information.

#### QUALITY

Since 2005, Viscom's in-house quality management system has been comprehensively certified in accordance with DIN EN ISO 9001. This covers all aspects of value creation, from the development, production and sale of assembly groups, micro and X-ray inspection systems through to general industrial image processing.

#### Concept

The management concept on quality is still being developed at the moment, and there is no defined target as of yet.

Viscom is committed to ensuring the consistently high quality of its products and solutions, as this represents an important purchase criterion for customers. High-quality products and solutions also fulfil an important sustainability criterion thanks to their durability. Because customers set out specific quality parameters in their purchasing terms, Viscom believes there is a link between satisfying high quality requirements and compliance/governance in terms of compliance with regulations.

#### Results

Because the concept is still being developed and there are no targets that can quantitatively be measured, it is not yet possible to present any results.

## Page 63

#### DATA SECURITY

The secure handling of all forms of data is playing an increasingly pivotal role for companies.

#### Concept

Compliance with data protection regulations and also the security of IT systems and systems that exchange data are not only an important factor in the digital age but are also part and parcel of good corporate governance. Viscom wishes to make continuous improvements on this front.

#### Results

Viscom has been TISAX certified since 2023. TISAX is a trusted assessment and exchange mechanism for information security in the automotive industry. It focuses specifically on data protection, data integrity and data availability in the manufacturing process and in the operation of vehicles. The TISAX certification gives automotive industry customers assurance that Viscom satisfies relevant requirements in the area of information security.

## EU Taxonomy

#### EU TAXONOMY DISCLOSURES

In its 2023 sustainability report, Viscom will be making disclosures as laid down in Delegated Regulation 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation) for the first time.

Viscom is not affected by any economic activity related to energy generation from fossil gas or nuclear energy. For this reason, the Company is not compiling a report using templates 2 to 5 pursuant to this Regulation. Template 1 is disclosed in this section under Report template 1. Nuclear and fossil gas related activities.

As part of the "Sustainable Finance" action plan, a central aim of EU Taxonomy is to channel financial flows into environmentally sustainable activities. In order to achieve this aim, EU Taxonomy intends to create a system for classifying and thereby forming a common understanding of environmentally sustainable activities, hereinafter referred to as economic activities or activities. When developing the Regulation, the European Commission focused on economic sectors and industries that are expected to have the greatest possible impact on meeting the six central environmental objectives. The identified economic activities were set alongside six central environmental objectives:

1) Climate change mitigation (CCM) 2) Climate change adaptation (CCA) 3) Water (WTR) 4) Pollution (PPC) 5) Circular economy (CE) 6) Biodiversity (BIO)

The European Commission's Delegated Act is providing more detail on which economic activities should potentially qualify as capable of being made environmentally sustainable (Taxonomyeligible) and which should actually qualify as being conducted in an environmentally sustainable manner (Taxonomy-aligned). Economic activities that are not currently covered by EU Taxonomy cannot qualify as Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomyaligned.

Viscom has carried out an assessment on the relevant economic activities of the Group as defined by the Delegated Act and has assigned these either to the economic activities outlined in the regulations or to a NACE code. To avoid double counting, during the analysis of Viscom's economic activities every relevant financial transaction was assigned to a single economic activity. CapEx and OpEx are linked with activities that could (potentially) make a substantial contribution to climate change mitigation. For this purpose, the description of each activity was aligned with Viscom's economic activity. The amounts that were used to calculate Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) are based on the figures from the consolidated financial statements.

The following section will provide information on Group-wide Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned revenue, CapEx and OpEx as defined by EU Taxonomy for the 2023 financial year.

## Page 64

#### REVENUE RATIO AS DEFINED IN EU TAXONOMY

This is the ratio of net revenue from Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomy-aligned economic activities in a reporting year to total net revenue for this reporting year. The denominator of the revenue ratio is the total net revenue stated in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 2023 financial year. The Company's economic activity – Viscom develops, manufactures and sells high-quality inspection systems for use in industrial production – is not described in the Delegated Regulations and, for this reason, the revenue of EUR 118,780 thousand is to be classified in full as Taxonomy non-eligible. This is why the revenue cannot qualify as Taxonomy-aligned either.

#### CapEx ratio as defined in EU Taxonomy

This is the ratio of additions to assets from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities in a reporting year to total capital expenditure for this reporting year. The denominator of the CapEx ratio is the total capital expenditure for the 2023 reporting year stated in the schedule of assets in the "Disclosures on assets" (A6–A8) section of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

The capital expenditure analysis identified the following economic activities, which contribute to one or more environmental objectives:

- 4.1. Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology: CCM, CCA
- 6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles: CCM, CCA
- 7.7. Acquisition and ownership of buildings: CCM, CCA

The capital expenditure of EUR 10 thousand on a photovoltaic system that is currently under construction is assigned to the activity 4.1. Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic technology. The activity 4.1. can be attributed to the environmental objective CCM because the technical screening criteria for CCA are not met. The capitalised right-of-use assets in vehicles in accordance with IFRS 16 amounting to EUR 1,610 thousand are assigned to the activity 6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. A contribution is made to the environmental objective CCM as the technical screening criteria for CCA are not met. Activity 7.7. Acquisition and ownership of buildings includes capitalised right-of-use assets for property and buildings in accordance with IFRS 16. This activity does not comply with the technical screening criteria for CCA, which is why it is fully attributed to the environmental objective CCM.

EU Taxonomy divides CapEx and OpEx KPIs into three categories (a–c). Category a) covers capital expenditure and operating expenditure that is related to assets or processes associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities. Category b) covers capital expenditure and operating expenditure that is part of a CapEx plan to expand Taxonomy-aligned economic activities or enable economic activities to become Taxonomy-aligned. Category c) covers the non-revenue-related purchase of output from Taxonomy-eligible economic activities and individual measures enabling the target activities to lead to greenhouse gas reductions or become low carbon. Viscom does not undertake any revenue-generating activities that correspond to one of the descriptions of the Taxonomy-eligible economic activities mentioned in the Climate Delegated Act. Additionally, capital expenditure and operating expenditure were both assessed to determine whether they could be assigned to one of the activities, a purchased product or an individual measure. For this reason, the CapEx KPIs relate to individual measures in category c).

Capital expenditure on assets (specifically development costs, vehicles, operating and office equipment, property and buildings, right-of-use assets in accordance with IFRS 16, leasehold improvements, advance payments and construction in progress, software, advance payments for intangible assets, and technical equipment and machinery) for the past financial year was assessed for Taxonomy eligibility and Taxonomy alignment.

## Page 65

Where capital expenditure qualified as Taxonomy-eligible, the second step entailed assessing its Taxonomy alignment. The outcome was that a total of EUR 6,924 thousand or 26 % of Viscom's CapEx is Taxonomy-eligible. Upon further assessment, none of the expenditure was found to be Taxonomy-aligned because the technical screening criteria were not met.

#### OPEX RATIO AS DEFINED IN EU TAXONOMY

Operating expenditure as defined in EU Taxonomy covers any direct expenditures that are necessary to ensure the continued and effective use of assets (e.g. research and development, servicing, building renovation measures, short-term lease, maintenance and repair).

The operating expenditure analysis identified the following economic activities, which contribute to one or more environmental objectives:

- 6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles: CCM, CCA
- 7.2. Renovation of existing buildings: CCM, CCA / 3.2 Renovation of existing buildings: CE
- 7.7. Acquisition and ownership of buildings: CCM, CCA

Operating expenditure of EUR 144 thousand for vehicle repairs is assigned to the activity 6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. As is the case for capital expenditure, this activity does not comply with the technical screening criteria for CCA and so it is attributed to CCM only. Activity 7.2. Renovation of existing buildings / 3.2 Renovation of existing buildings includes operating expenditure of EUR 64 thousand for building maintenance and servicing. The activity is fully attributed to the environmental objective CCM as the technical screening criteria for CCA and CE are not met. Operating expenditure of EUR 4 thousand for an apartment lease is assigned to 7.7. Acquisition and ownership of buildings and fully attributed to CCM. The technical screening criteria for CCA are not met.

The OpEx KPIs in category a, b, c were classified and assigned in exactly the same way as the CapEx KPIs. The OpEx KPIs relate to individual measures in category c.

The first step also entailed assessing the total operating expenditure of EUR 2,472 thousand for Taxonomy eligibility. The outcome was that EUR 211 thousand or 9 % of Viscom's operating expenditure is Taxonomy-eligible. A further assessment of the Taxonomy-eligible proportion of OpEx to determine compliance with the technical screening criteria revealed that 0 % of the OpEx is Taxonomy-aligned.

## Page 66

Templates in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation Template: Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023

| (2)<br>Code                                              | (3)<br>Year | (4)<br>Turnover | (5)<br>Proportion of Turnover,<br>2023<br>% | (6)<br>Climate Change<br>Mitigation<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (7)<br>Climate Change<br>Adaptation<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (8)<br>Water<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (9)<br>Pollution<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (10)<br>Circular Economy<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (11)<br>Biodiversity<br>Y;N;<br>N/EL | (12)<br>Climate Change<br>Mitigation<br>Y/N | (13)<br>Climate Change<br>Adaptation<br>Y/N | (14)<br>Water<br>Y/N | (15)<br>Pollution<br>Y/N | (16)<br>Circular Economy<br>Y/N | (17)<br>Biodiversity<br>Y/N | (18)<br>Minimum Safeguards<br>Y/N | (19)<br>Proportion of<br>Taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or<br>-eligible (A.2.)<br>turnover,<br>2022<br>% | (20)<br>Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>E | (21)<br>Category<br>transitional<br>activity<br>T |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| (Taxonomy-aligned)<br>activities                         |             | Currency        | 0<br>%                                      | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                          | 0 %                              | 0 %                                      | 0 %                                  | 0 %                                         | 0 %                                         | 0 %                  | 0 %                      | 0 %                             | 0 %                         | 0 %                               | 0 %                                                                                                      | 0 %                                           | 0 %                                               |
| sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) |             |                 | 0                                           | EL;<br>N/EL                                         | EL;<br>N/EL                                         | EL;<br>N/EL                  | EL;<br>N/EL                      | EL;<br>N/EL                              | EL;<br>N/EL                          |                                             |                                             |                      |                          |                                 |                             |                                   | 0 %                                                                                                      |                                               |                                                   |
| (Environmentally<br>sustainable activities)              |             |                 | 0                                           | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                          | 0 %                              | 0 %                                      | 0 %                                  |                                             |                                             |                      |                          |                                 |                             |                                   | 0 %                                                                                                      |                                               |                                                   |
| (A.1 + A.2)                                              |             |                 | 0                                           | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                                                 | 0 %                          | 0 %                              | 0 %                                      | 0 %                                  |                                             |                                             |                      |                          |                                 |                             |                                   | 0 %                                                                                                      |                                               |                                                   |
| (B)                                                      |             |                 | 118.780                                     |                                                     |                                                     |                              |                                  |                                          |                                      |                                             |                                             |                      |                          |                                 |                             |                                   | 100 %                                                                                                    |                                               |                                                   |
|                                                          |             |                 | 118.780                                     |                                                     |                                                     |                              |                                  |                                          |                                      |                                             |                                             |                      |                          |                                 |                             |                                   | 100 %                                                                                                    |                                               |                                                   |

 –

N/EL – Not

eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity

 for the

relevant environmental

 objective.

## Page 67

Template: Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023

| Financial year 2023<br>(1)                                                                                              | Economic Activities<br>(2) | Code<br>(3) | Currency | Proportion of CapEx,<br>2023<br>(4) | Climate Change Mitigation<br>(5)                                                                   | Climate Change Adaptation<br>(6) | Water<br>(7) | Pollution<br>(8) | Circular Economy<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>(10) | Climate Change Mitigation<br>(11) | Climate Change Adaptation<br>(12) | Water<br>(13) | Pollution<br>(14) | Circular Economy<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>(16) | Minimum Safeguards<br>(17) | Proportion of Taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or<br>-eligible (A.2.)<br>CapEx,<br>2022<br>(18) | Category enabling<br>activity<br>(19) | Category transitional<br>activity<br>(20)                                                                           | Financial year 2023<br>(1)                                                                         | Economic Activities<br>(2)   | Code<br>(3) | OpEx<br>(4) | Proportion of<br>OpEx,<br>2023<br>(5) | Climate Change<br>Mitigation<br>(6) | Climate Change<br>Adaptation<br>(7) | Water<br>(8) | Pollution<br>(9) | Circular Economy<br>(10) | Biodiversity<br>(11) | Climate Change<br>Mitigation<br>(12) | Climate Change<br>Adaptation<br>(13) | Water<br>(14) | Pollution<br>(15) | Circular Economy<br>(16) | Biodiversity<br>(17) | Minimum Safeguards<br>(18) | Proportion of<br>Taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or<br>-eligible (A.2.)<br>OpEx,<br>2022<br>(19) | Category<br>enabling<br>activity<br>(20) | Category<br>transitional<br>activity |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|-------------|----------|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------|------------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------|-------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|-------------|-------------|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------|------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------|-------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                         |                            |             |          | %                                   | Y;N;<br>N/EL                                                                                       | Y;N;<br>N/EL                     | Y;N;<br>N/EL | Y;N;<br>N/EL     | Y;N;<br>N/EL            | Y;N;<br>N/EL         | Y/N                               | Y/N                               | Y/N           | Y/N               | Y/N                      | Y/N                  | Y/N                        | %                                                                                             | E                                     | T                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                    |                              | Currency    |             | %                                     | Y;N;<br>N/EL                        | Y;N;<br>N/EL                        | Y;N;<br>N/EL | Y;N;<br>N/EL     | Y;N;<br>N/EL             | Y;N;<br>N/EL         | Y/N                                  | Y/N                                  | Y/N           | Y/N               | Y/N                      | Y/N                  | %                          | E                                                                                               | T                                        |                                      |
| TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                            |                            |             |          |                                     |                                                                                                    |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                       |                              |             |             |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| 1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                            |                            |             |          |                                     |                                                                                                    |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                          |                              |             |             |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                             |                            |             |          | 0                                   | 0 %                                                                                                | 0 %                              | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                     | 0 %                  |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      | 0 %                        |                                                                                               |                                       | Ex of environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                            |                                                                                                    |                              |             | 0 %         | 0 %                                   | 0 %                                 | 0 %                                 | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                      |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          | 0 %                  |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| which enabling                                                                                                          |                            |             |          | 0                                   | 0 %                                                                                                | 0 %                              | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                     | 0 %                  |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      | 0 %                        |                                                                                               |                                       | which enabling                                                                                                      |                                                                                                    |                              |             | 0 %         | 0 %                                   | 0 %                                 | 0 %                                 | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                      |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          | 0 %                  |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| which transitional                                                                                                      |                            |             |          | 0                                   | 0 %                                                                                                | 0 %                              |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      | 0 %                        |                                                                                               |                                       | which transitional                                                                                                  |                                                                                                    |                              |             | 0 %         |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   | 0 %                      |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                  |                            |             |          |                                     |                                                                                                    |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) |                              |             |             |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
|                                                                                                                         |                            |             |          |                                     | EL;<br>N/EL                                                                                        | EL;<br>N/EL                      | EL;<br>N/EL  | EL;<br>N/EL      | EL;<br>N/EL             | EL;<br>N/EL          |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                    |                              |             |             |                                       | EL;<br>N/EL                         | EL;<br>N/EL                         | EL;<br>N/EL  | EL;<br>N/EL      | EL;<br>N/EL              | EL;<br>N/EL          |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| Electricity generation using solar<br>photovoltaic technology                                                           | CCM 4.1<br>CCA 4.1         |             |          | 10                                  | 0 %                                                                                                | EL                               | EL           | N/EL             | N/EL                    | N/EL                 | N/EL                              |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            | 0 %                                                                                           |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars<br>and light commercial vehicles                           | CCM 6.5<br>CCA 6.5           |             | 144         | 6 %                                   | EL                                  | EL                                  | N/EL         | N/EL             | N/EL                     | N/EL                 |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      | 4 %                        |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars<br>and light commercial vehicles                                                | CCM 6.5<br>CCA 6.5         |             |          | 1.610                               | 23 %                                                                                               | EL                               | EL           | N/EL             | N/EL                    | N/EL                 | N/EL                              |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            | 21 %                                                                                          |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Renovation of existing buildings                                                                   | CCM 7.2<br>CCA 7.2<br>CE 3.2 |             | 64          | 3 %                                   | EL                                  | EL                                  | N/EL         | EL               | N/EL                     | N/EL                 |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      | 3 %                        |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                  | CCM 7.7<br>CCA 7.7         |             |          | 214                                 | 3 %                                                                                                | EL                               | EL           | N/EL             | N/EL                    | N/EL                 | N/EL                              |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            | 8 %                                                                                           |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                             | CCM 7.7<br>CCA 7.7           |             | 4           | 0 %                                   | EL                                  | EL                                  | N/EL         | N/EL             | N/EL                     | N/EL                 |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      | 0 %                        |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally<br>sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)<br>(A.2) |                            |             |          | 1.834                               | 26 %                                                                                               | 26 %                             | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                     | 0 %                  |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      | 29 %                       |                                                                                               |                                       | OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally<br>sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                                                                                                    |                              | 211         | 9 %         | 9 %                                   | 0 %                                 | 0 %                                 | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                      |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          | 7 %                  |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                       |                            |             |          | 1.834                               | 26 %                                                                                               | 26 %                             | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                     | 0 %                  |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      | 29 %                       |                                                                                               |                                       | OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                    |                                                                                                    |                              | 211         | 9 %         | 9 %                                   | 0 %                                 | 0 %                                 | 0 %          | 0 %              | 0 %                      |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          | 7 %                  |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                     |                            |             |          |                                     |                                                                                                    |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                   |                              |             |             |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                           |                            |             |          | 5.092                               | 74 %                                                                                               |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                       |                              |             | 2.262       | 91 %                                  |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                           |                            |             |          | 6.926                               | 100 %                                                                                              |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     | Total (A + B)                                                                                      |                              |             | 2.473       | 100 %                                 |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |
|                                                                                                                         |                            |             |          |                                     | Y - Yes, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective |                                  |              |                  |                         |                      |                                   |                                   |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                               |                                       |                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                    |                              |             |             |                                       |                                     |                                     |              |                  |                          |                      |                                      |                                      |               |                   |                          |                      |                            |                                                                                                 |                                          |                                      |

N – EL – N/EL – Not

Taxonomy-eligible activity

 for the relevant objective

eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity

 for the

relevant environmental

 objective.

No, Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned

 activity with the

relevant environmental

 objective

## Page 68

Template: Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023

EL – N/EL – Not

Taxonomy-eligible activity

 for the relevant objective

eligible, Taxonomy-non-eligible activity

 for the relevant environmental objective.

## Page 69

#### Report template 1. Nuclear and fossil gas-related activities

| Row | Nuclear energy related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |    |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 1   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.                                                                                        | No |
| 2   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies. | No |
| 3   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades.                          | No |
|     | Fossil gas related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |    |
| 4   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                           | No |
| 5   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                  | No |
| 6   | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                    | No |

## Page 70

## Corporate Governance Statement

## Corporate governance statement in accordance with sections 289f, 315d HGB

The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Viscom AG are committed to the principles of sound corporate governance. These principles are a crucial element of the modern capital market and are intended to strengthen the trust of investors and the public in the management and oversight of listed German companies. The principles of good corporate governance and control, i. e. aimed not solely at value added but also at responsibility and transparency, determine the actions of Viscom AG's management and supervisory bodies.

In accordance with section 289f HGB, Viscom AG's Executive Board, also on behalf of the Supervisory Board, reports on the company's corporate governance in this section.

## Declaration in accordance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act

The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Viscom AG submitted the annual compliance statement in accordance with section 161 of the Aktiengesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act) on 23 February 2024. It has been published and is permanently accessible in the "Company/Investor Relations/ Corporate Governance" section of Viscom AG's website at www.viscom.com.

#### Wording of the 2024 compliance statement

Corporate governance is defined as the legal and de facto regulatory framework for managing and monitoring a company. The purpose of the German Corporate Governance Code (the Code) is to make the German corporate governance system clear and transparent. The Code sets out principles, recommendations and suggestions regarding the management and supervision of listed German companies that are recognised internationally and nationally as standards for sound and responsible company management. It promotes the trust of investors, customers, staff and the public in the management and oversight of listed German companies. Section 161 AktG requires listed companies to declare once a year whether the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as published by the Federal Ministry of Justice have been complied with or which recommendations have not been or will not be followed ("comply or explain").

The following compliance statement for the past reporting period and the future refers to the recommendations by the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated 28 April 2022 as published by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette) on 27 June 2022.

In accordance with section 161 AktG, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Viscom AG declare that the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code (version dated 28 April 2022) have been and are complied with. The following recommendations have not been and will not be applied:

1. The risks and opportunities associated with social and environmental factors have not yet been systematically identified and assessed. Also, appropriate consideration had not yet been given to ecological and social objectives in corporate strategy and planning or in the control and risk management system (past deviation from A.1, A.3 of the Code). The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board welcome the growing regulatory significance of sustainability criteria and already take individual ESG factors into account in the management of the company. ESG factors are also taken into account in the current remuneration system for Executive Board members. However, there is still no comprehensive and systematic integration of social and environmental factors into corporate management, meaning that recommendations A.1 and A.3 of the Code have not yet been followed. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board comply with the statutory

## Page 71

requirements for sustainability reporting and, in this context, are currently developing a coherent concept for the systematic integration of ESG factors, including their opportunities and risks as well as environmental and social impacts, into corporate management, i. e. corporate strategy, corporate planning and the control and risk management system. Compliance with the recommendations of the Code is intended in the medium term.

## 2. There is no age limit for members of the Executive Board. Accordingly, no age limit has been defined in the corporate governance statement (deviation from B.5 of the Code).

Any exclusion based solely on age does not appear expedient to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, since the optimum composition of the Executive Board could thereby be prevented for merely formal reasons. The company is also committed to ensuring access to the expertise of experienced members of the Executive Board. An age limit in the Articles of Association or the Rules of Procedure therefore has been and is deemed unnecessary. Accordingly, an age limit has not been defined in the corporate governance statement.

## 3. The Supervisory Board has not formed any committees, and in particular has not formed a nominations committee (deviation from D.3 sentence 5, D.4 of the Code); the Supervisory Board as a whole serves as the Audit Committee.

Given the circumstances specific to the company and the low number of its members, the Supervisory Board does not form any committees, in particular it does not form a nominations committee (deviation from D.4 of the Code).

The Supervisory Board consists of just three members. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the formation of committees is not expedient under the circumstances specific to the company and – unlike in larger governing bodies – does not increase efficiency. All matters are addressed by all members of the Supervisory Board, meaning that the formation of additional committees is not considered necessary. Given that the Supervisory Board of Viscom AG is not subject to codetermination, a nominating committee comprising exclusively shareholder representatives would be obsolete.

In accordance with the statutory regulation in section 107(4) sentence 2 AktG, the Supervisory Board as a whole, which consists of just three members, is also the Audit Committee, without the necessity of such a committee being established separately. The following recommendations, when having reference to committees, the audit committee or their members, therefore relate to the Supervisory Board as a whole and its members: C.10 of the Code (independence of the Chair of the audit committee), D.2 sentence 2 of the Code (list of committee members in the corporate governance statement), D.3 of the Code (requirements for the members of the audit committee and related disclosures in the corporate governance statement), D.7 of the Code (participation in committee meetings), D.10 (coordination between the audit committee and the auditor), D.12 of the Code (review of committees' effectiveness), G.17 of the Code (taking committee chairs and members into account regarding remuneration).

As the Supervisory Board as a whole is also the Audit Committee (section 107(4) sentence 2 AktG), Prof. Dr. Michèle Morner is the Chairwoman of this Audit Committee as well (deviation from D.3 S. 5 of the Code).

The Supervisory Board believes that it can effectively perform the duties of the Audit Committee thanks to its size, as it comprises three members chaired by the independent member Prof. Dr. Michèle Morner who has specialised knowledge and experience in applying accounting policies and internal control processes.

## 4. The Executive Board does not have a chairperson or spokesperson.

The Executive Board of Viscom AG does not have a chairperson or spokesperson. Where recommendations are addressed to the chairperson or spokesperson (D.5, E.2 of the Code), these are understood to refer to the Executive Board as a whole.

Given the size of the Executive Board, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board believe that a chairperson is not required on a board with three members. In addition, stock corporation
