## Page 146

#### **Our Independence and Quality Management**

We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which is based on fundamental principies of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.

Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management 1 (lSQM 1) which requires the firm to design, implement and operate a quality control system that includes policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Our engagement team consisted of professionals who are experts in reviews of non-financial information and, specifically, in information on economic, social and environmental performance.

#### **Our Responsibility**

Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in an independent limited assurance report based on the work performed. We conducted our work in accordance with the requirements established in International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financiallnformation, currently in force, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), and with the guidelines published by the Spanish Institute of Certified Public Accountants on attestation engagements regarding non-financial information statements.

The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement and, consequently, the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower.

Our work consisted of requesting information from management and the various units of Audax Renovables, S.A. that participated in the preparation of the N FIS, reviewing the processes used to compile and validate the information presented in the NFIS, and carrying out the following analytical procedures and sample-based review tests:

• Meetings held with personnel of Audax Renovables to ascertain the business model, policies and management approaches applied, and the main risks relating to these matters, and to obtain the information required for the external review.

## Page 147

- Analysis of the scope, relevance and completeness of the contents included in the 2023 NFIS based on the materiality analysis performed by Audax Renovables and described in section 2.6 IIMateriality Analysis" thereot taking into account the contents required under current Spanish corporate legislation.
- Analysis of the processes used to compile and validate the data presented in the 2023 NFIS.
- Review of the information relating to risks and the policies and management approaches applied in relation to the material matters presented in the 2023 NFIS.
- Verification, by means of sample-based review tests, of the information relating to the contents included in the 2023 NFIS, and the appropriate compilation thereof based on the data furnished by information sources.
- Obtainment of a representation letter from the directors and management. ------------ Emphasis **of Matter**

Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, based on the Delegated Acts adopted in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation, establishes the obligation to disclose information on how and to what extent an undertaking's activities are associated with eligible economic activities in relation to the environmental objectives ofthe sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, the transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (the other environmental objectives), and in respect of certain new activities included in the climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation objectives, for the first time for 2023, in addition to the information referring to eligible and aligned activities required in 2022 in relation to the climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation objectives. Therefore, the accompanying NFIS does not include comparative information on eligibility in relation to the other environmental objectives indicated above or to the new activities included in the climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation objectives. Also, since the information relating to 2022 was not required with the same level of detail as in 2023, the information disclosed in the accompanying NFIS is not strictly comparable either. In addition, it should be noted that the directors of Audax Renovables have included information on the criteria which, in their opinion, best enable them to comply with the aforementioned obligations and which are defined in the "Taxonomy Reporting Tables (turnover, CAPEX and OPEX)" appendix of the accompanying NFIS. Our conclusion is not modified in respect of this matter.

## Page 148

#### Conclusion

Based on the procedures performed in our verification and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFIS of Audax Renovables for the year ended 31 December 2023 was not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the content specified in current Spanish corporate legislation and with the criteria of the selected GRI standards, as well as other criteria described as indicated for each matter in the "Table of contents - Law 11/2018 and GRI standards", "Taxonomy Calculation Methodology" and "Taxonomy Reporting Tables (turnover, CAPEX and OPEX)" Appendices of the NFIS.

#### Use and Distribution

This report has been prepared in response to the requirement established in corporate legislation in force in Spain and, therefore, it might not be appropriate for other purposes or jurisdictions.

DELOITIE, S.L.

José Ricardo González Rosal

27 February 2024

## Page 149

## **Non-Financial Information Statement 2023 AUDAX RENOVABLES and subsidiaries**

**For the year ended on 31 December 2023**

## Page 150

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 151

| Presentation Letter                                               | 5  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 1. Audax Renovables Group                                         | 6  |
| 1.1. Our Business.                                                | 6  |
| 1.2. History of Audax Renovables                                  | 7  |
| 1.3. Mission, vision, and values                                  | 8  |
| 1.4. Relevant events during the year 2023                         | 9  |
| 1.5. The Group's results.                                         | 10 |
| 2. Audax's commitment to sustainability.                          | 11 |
| 2.1. Sustainable business model.                                  | 11 |
| 2.2. Materiality analysis.                                        | 11 |
| 2.3. Stakeholders.                                                | 15 |
| 2.4. Sustainability strategy.                                     | 17 |
| 2.5. European Taxonomy of Sustainable Finance.                    | 18 |
| 2.6. ESG indexes and ratings                                      | 19 |
| 2.7. Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).     | 19 |
| 3. Information on environmental issues                            | 24 |
| 3.1. Environmental management                                     | 24 |
| 3.2. Sustainable use of resources                                 | 24 |
| 3.3. Climate change                                               | 26 |
| 3.4. Circular economy and waste management.                       | 27 |
| 3.5. Biodiversity protection.                                     | 29 |
| 4. Information on social issues and concerning personnel.         | 31 |
| 4.1. The Group's personnel                                        | 31 |
| 4.2. Diversity, equal opportunities, and non-discrimination.      | 43 |
| 4.3. Health and safety in the workplace                           | 45 |
| 4.4. Employees' training and development.                         | 46 |
| 4.5. Client management                                            | 48 |
| 4.6. Cybersecurity and information privacy                        | 49 |
| 4.7. Value chain.                                                 | 50 |
| 4.8. Social responsibility.                                       | 47 |
| 5. Corporate Governance                                           | 52 |
| 5.1. Governance model                                             | 52 |
| 5.2. Governing bodies                                             | 52 |
| 5.3. Regulatory Compliance System                                 | 53 |
| 5.4. Fight against corruption and bribery                         | 55 |
| 5.5. Respect for Human Rights                                     | 55 |
| 5.6. Whistleblowing channel                                       | 56 |
| 5.7. Risk management.                                             | 57 |
| 5.8. Transparency and communication                               | 58 |
| 6. Company information                                            | 60 |
| 6.1. Tax information                                              | 60 |
| 6.2. Corporate structure.                                         | 61 |
| 7. About this report                                              | 62 |
| APPENDIX I: Table of contents of Law 11/2018 and GRI standards    | 66 |
| APPENDIX II: Sustainable finance taxonomy calculation methodology | 70 |
| APPENDIX III: Taxonomy report tables (Turnover. CapEX and OpEX)   | 74 |

## Page 152

<MISSING_PAGE_TEXT>

## Page 153

#### **Presentation Letter**

Audax Renovables makes available to its stakeholders the Non-Financial Information Statement for the year 2023. This report is an exercise in transparency that provides verified information about the situation, strategy, activities, plans, and progress in the area of sustainability, both internally and externally.

The Group aims to position itself as a leader in the renewable energy sector, with a vertical integration model of its renewable energy production and retail activities. Since 2019, Audax Renovables has broadened the focus on renewable energy production activities to provide the company with a portfolio of photovoltaic and wind projects, which will ensure the sustainability of the business at a medium and long term, to guarantee an efficient and responsible supply of energy and demonstrating the company's strong commitment to its customers, shareholders, and all stakeholders.

The fight against the climate change and the commitment to the energy transition are two of the main challenges addressed by the Group in the area of sustainability. Society is changing the way in which the energy is produced, distributed, and consumed, and the regulators are promoting climate neutrality policies, that prioritise renewable energy consumption over fossil fuels as a pathway to decarbonisation.

Renewable sources are key to the energy transition, and therefore the Group's main objective is to increase the number of energy generation projects and provide the company with a robust portfolio of projects. The company's energy generation projects are being carried out according to the best practices in construction and operation of power plants, ensuring the protection of the environment, preservation of biodiversity and conservation of historic heritage, ensuring the welfare of the local communities where it operates and compliance with the applicable legislation.

In this way, the Group reaffirms its commitment to sustainability, convinced that the integration of the ESG aspects into the Group's strategy will hell business growth and generate value for the society in the transition process of the energy sector, contributing to the social welfare and preserving the environment.

During this year the Audax Renovables Group has continued creating a solid foundation demonstrated by the improvement of the financial results obtained in recent months. Furthermore, the company has been rated by Morningstar Sustainalytics ESG Rating\* as an "ESG Low Risk Company" or low ESG risk company. The rating confirms its leadership position in ESG performance, placing Audax in the TOP 10 among independent power productors and traders.

None of this would be possible without the people who are part of the Group. The organization's objectives are being achieved thanks to the effort and dedication of its employees. Ensuring and working for the well-being and professional development of employees are fundamental principles for the Company, as well as promoting equality, diversity, and the principles of nondiscrimination.

Once again, the Group maintains its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals included in the 2030 Agenda, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the European Green Deal and the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. Consequently, the commitment of the Group and all its employees is to continue along these lines in order to achieve the company's objectives and continue creating value for our stakeholders, the society, and the environment.

## Page 154

#### **1 Audax Renovables Group**

#### **1.1 Our Business**

Founded in the year 2000, Audax Renovables (hereinafter, the "Group", "Audax" or the "Company") is an independent energy Group, leader in the SME segment in Spain, whose activities are focused on energy production from 100% renewable sources and supplying electricity and natural gas retail. Its business model is based on vertical integration, guaranteeing efficient supply of energy to customers.

After more than two decades present in the sector, the Company is experiencing significant growth and supplies energy to more than 360,000 customers in 8 European countries (Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Hungary) and Panama. The Group comprises more than 80 subsidiary companies and has a team of 755 employees.

Its main objective is to lead the energy transition in its sector, continuing its activity of electricity and gas supply, investing in electricity generation from 100% renewable sources and contributing to the improvement of the European energy mix and the economy decarbonisation, through both activities.

#### **International presence**

#### **Production of renewable energy**

The Group promotes all kinds of activities related to energy production from 100% renewable sources, primarily wind and solar energy. The Group manages a portfolio of 1 GW renewable energy generation projects, including wind farms and solar plants in Spain, France, Poland, Portugal, Italy, and Panama.

Image /page/153/Figure/8 description: The image shows a map of Europe and Panama, with several countries highlighted in yellow. Next to each highlighted country is a text box describing the country's production of renewable energy. For France, the text says "Wind farm in operation - 12 MW". For Portugal, the text says "Photovoltaic plants in development - 211 MWp". For Spain, the text says "Wind farms in operation - 45 MW, Photovoltaic plants in operation - 106 MWp, Photovoltaic plants under construction - 66 MWp, Photovoltaic plants in development - 216 MWp". For Italy, the text says "Photovoltaic plants in development - 199 MWp". For Poland, the text says "Wind farm in operation - 34 MW". For Panama, the text says "Wind farm in operation - First pase 66 MW, \* Audax hols 30% of shares".

Chart 1: Audax Renovables' energy production activity

## Page 220

#### **Calculation of the percentage of eligible or eligible and aligned CapEx**

The proportion of eligible CapEx, according to article 8 paragraph 2 b) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 is calculated dividing the numerator by the denominator.

The denominator corresponds to the additions to tangible and intangible assets made during the year considered before applying depreciation, amortisation, and possible new valuations (including those resulting from revaluation and impairment) corresponding to the pertinent year, excluding changes in fair value. The denominator also includes the additions to tangible and intangible assets resulting from mergers and acquisitions. For non-financial companies applying the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by Regulations (EC), the CapEx should cover the costs registered in accordance with:

- IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment, paragraph 73e) i) and iii).
- IAS 38 Intangible assets, paragraph 118e) i).
- IAS 40 Property investments, paragraph 79d) i) and ii) (for cost model).
- IFRS 16 Lease, paragraph 53h). A lease which does not involve registering a right-ofuse asset is not accounted for as CapEx.

On the othe hand, the numerator includes the part of the denominator, which is related to the investment in assets/processes associated with the activities that are eligible or eligible and aligned with the Taxonomy. Is related to the assets or processes associated with business activities, which are part of a plan to extend the activities that are eligible or eligible and aligned with the Taxonomy or to enable future alignment of eligible activities with the Taxonomy.

Therefore, to calculate the percentages of eligibility corresponding to Audax Renovables:

- The numerator includes only the aggregation of CapEx of the activities of the companies/subgroups considered as eligible or eligible and aligned.
- The denominator corresponds to the total CapEx of Audax Renovables.

#### **Calculation of the percentage of eligible or eligible and aligned OpEX**

The proportion of eligible OpEX according to article 8 paragraph 2 b) of Delegated Regulation 2020/852 is calculated dividing the numerator by the denominator.

The denominator includes the non-capitalised direct cost related to:

- Research and development.
- Building renovation measures.
- Short-term lease.
- Maintenance and repair.
- Other direct costs related to the daily operations of property, plant and equipment by the company or outsourced to a third party, necessary to ensure the operation of these assets.

## Page 221

On the other hand, the numerator includes the part of the operating expenses included in the denominator, which:

- Is related to the assets or processes associated with eligible business activities, including training and other adaptation needs of the human resources, and noncapitalised direct costs representing research and development.
- Is related to the assets or processes associated with business activities, which are part of a plan to extend the activities that are eligible or eligible and aligned with the Taxonomy or to enable future alignment of eligible activities with the Taxonomy.
- Is related to the acquisition of the production derived from business activities adjusted to the Taxonomy and individual measures, which enable the objective activities to become low-carbon or involve reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.

Therefore, to calculate the percentages of eligibility corresponding to Audax Renovables:

- The numerator includes only the aggregation of OpEx of the activities of the companies/subgroups considered as eligible or eligible and aligned.
- The denominator corresponds to the total OpEX of Audax Renovables.

Lastly, the controls designed to ensure the uniformity of currencies, accounting principles and prevention of intercompany duplication of amounts or balances are carried out during the process of drawing up the audited consolidated financial statements of Audax Renovables.

The Company has defined two internal procedures (Procedure for the classification of sustainable activities in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and Procedure for the calculation of indicators (KPI) of sustainable activities in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation). Both procedures have been approved by the competent Committee, and document the processes of eligibility, alignment and calculation of the indicators related to the Taxonomy.

Below we present the figures concerning turnover, CapEx and OpEx aligned to the Taxonomy:

## Page 222

#### **APPENDIX III: Taxonomy report tables (Turnover, CapEX and OpEX)**

1) Proportion of turnover derived from products and services associated to the activities aligned with the taxonomy for the year 2023.

| Economic activity (1)                                                                                | Code(s) (2) | Absolute turnover (3) | Percentage of turnover (4) | Substantial contribution criteria |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | Proportion of turnover adjusted to the taxonomy year 2022                                     | Proportion of turnover aligned with the taxonomy, year N-1 (19) | Category (Enabling activity) (20) | Category (Transition activity) (21) | Economic activity (1) | Code(s) (2) | Absolute CapEx (3) | Percentage of CapEx (4) | Substantial contribution criteria |                                  | DNSH criteria<br>(Do not cause significant harm) |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|-------|---|---|---|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                      |             |                       |                            | Climate change                    |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          | DNSH criteria (Do not cause significant harm) |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   |                                                                                               |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         | Climate change mitigation (5)     | Adaptation to climate change (6) | Climate change mitigation (11)                   | Adaptation to climate change (12) | Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (13) | Transition towards circular economy (14) | Pollution prevention and control (15) | Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) | Proportion of CapEx adjusted to the taxonomy year 2022 | Proportion of CapEx aligned with the taxonomy, year N-1 (19) |
|                                                                                                      |             |                       |                            | Climate change mitigation (5)     | Adaptation to climate change (6) | Climate change mitigation (11) | Adaptation to climate change (12) | Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources (13) | Transition towards circular economy (14) | Pollution prevention and control (15)         | Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems (16) | Minimum safeguards (17) |       |   |   |   | A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                        |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| <b>A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                        |             |                       |                            |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Aligned with the taxonomy)                        |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| <b>A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Aligned with the taxonomy)</b>                        |             |                       |                            |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | Electricity generation through solar photovoltaic technology                                  | 4.1                                                             | 21,585,466.76                     | 63.97%                              | 100%                  | 100%        | Yes                | Yes                     | N/A.                              | Yes                              | N/A.                                             | Yes                               | Yes                                                               | 0.00%                                    | -                                     | F                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| Electricity generation through solar photovoltaic technology                                         | 4.1         | 7,154,952.79          | 0.31%                      | 100%                              | 100%                             | Yes                            | Yes                               | N/A.                                                              | Yes                                      | N/A.                                          | Yes                                                            | Yes                     | 0.00% | - | F | - | Electricity generation from wind energy                                                       | 4.3                                                             | 304,386.11                        | 0.90%                               | 100%                  | 100%        | Yes                | Yes                     | N/A.                              | Yes                              | N/A.                                             | Yes                               | Yes                                                               | 0.00%                                    | -                                     | F                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| Electricity generation from wind energy                                                              | 4.3         | 13,298,410.05         | 0.58%                      | 100%                              | 100%                             | Yes                            | Yes                               | N/A.                                                              | Yes                                      | N/A.                                          | Yes                                                            | Yes                     | 0.00% | - | F | - | CapEx of sustainable eligible activities (adjusted to the Taxonomy) (A.1)                     | -                                                               | 21,889,852.87                     | 64.87%                              |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   | 0.00%                                    | -                                     | -                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| Turnover of sustainable eligible activities (adjusted to the Taxonomy) (A.1)                         |             | 20,453,362.84         | 0.89%                      |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         | 0.00% | - | - | - | A.2 Activities that are eligible but not environmentally sustainable (non-aligned activities) |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| <b>A.2 Activities that are eligible but not environmentally sustainable (non-aligned activities)</b> |             |                       |                            |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | 4.1. Electricity generation through solar photovoltaic technology (Year 2022)                 | 4.1                                                             | -                                 | -                                   |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   | 69.00%                                   | -                                     | F                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| 4.1. Electricity generation through solar photovoltaic technology (Year 2022)                        | 4.1         | -                     | 0.00%                      |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         | 0.25% | - | F | - | 4.3. Electricity generation from wind energy (Year 2022)                                      | 4.3                                                             | -                                 | -                                   |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   | 0.00%                                    | -                                     | F                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| 4.3. Electricity generation from wind energy (Year 2022)                                             | 4.3         | -                     | 0.00%                      |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         | 0.79% | - | F | - | CapEx of sustainable eligible activities (adjusted to the Taxonomy) (A.1)                     | -                                                               | -                                 | -                                   |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   | 69.00%                                   | -                                     | -                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| Turnover of sustainable eligible activities (adjusted to the Taxonomy) (A.1)                         | -           | 0.00                  | 0.00%                      |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         | 1.04% | - | - | - | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                             | -                                                               | 21,889,852.87                     | 64.87%                              |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   | 69.00%                                   | -                                     | -                                                              | -                       |                                                        |                                                              |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                    | -           | 20,453,362.84         | 0.89%                      |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         | 1.04% | - | - | - | A. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                    |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| <b>A. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                    |             |                       |                            |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | CapEx of non-eligible activities (B)                                                          | -                                                               | 11,854,001.82                     | 35.13%                              |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| Turnover of non-eligible activities (B)                                                              | -           | 2269730740.36         | 99.11%                     |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   | Total (A + B)                                                                                 | -                                                               | 33,743,854.69                     | 100.00%                             |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                        | -           | 2,290,184,103.20      | 100.00%                    |                                   |                                  |                                |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                               |                                                                |                         |       |   |   |   |                                                                                               |                                                                 |                                   |                                     |                       |             |                    |                         |                                   |                                  |                                                  |                                   |                                                                   |                                          |                                       |                                                                |                         |                                                        |                                                              |

## Page 223

2) Proportion of CapEx derived from products and services associated to the activities aligned with the taxonomy for the year 2023.

## Page 224

Proportion of OpEx derived from products and services associated to the activities aligned with the taxonomy for the year 2023.

| Economic activity (1)                                                                                | Code(s) (2) | Absolute OpEx (3) | Percentage of OpEx (4) | Substantial<br>contribution<br>criteria |                                     | DNSH criteria<br>(Do not cause significant harm) |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | Proportion of<br>OpEX adjusted to<br>the taxonomy<br>year 2022 | Proportion<br>of OpEX<br>aligned with<br>the<br>taxonomy,<br>year N-1<br>(19) | Category<br>(Enabling<br>activity)<br>(20) | Category<br>(Transition<br>activity)<br>(21) |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                      |             |                   |                        | Climate change<br>mitigation (5)        | Adaptation to<br>climate change (6) | Climate change<br>mitigation (11)                | Adaptation to<br>climate change (12) | Sustainable use and<br>protection of water<br>and marine | Transition towards<br>circular economy<br>(14) | Pollution prevention<br>and control (15) | Protection and<br>restoration of<br>biodiversity and | Minimum<br>safeguards (17) |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| <b>A. ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                        |             |                   |                        |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| <b>A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Aligned with the taxonomy)</b>                        |             |                   |                        |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| Electricity generation through solar<br>photovoltaic technology                                      | 4.1         | 1,074,769.62      | 0.78%                  | 100%                                    | 100%                                | Yes                                              | Yes                                  | N/A.                                                     | Yes                                            | N/A.                                     | Yes                                                  | Yes                        | 0.00%                                                          | -                                                                             | F                                          | -                                            |
| Electricity generation from wind<br>energy                                                           | 4.3         | 0.00              | 0.00%                  | 100%                                    | 100%                                | Yes                                              | Yes                                  | N/A.                                                     | Yes                                            | N/A.                                     | Yes                                                  | Yes                        | 0.00%                                                          | -                                                                             | F                                          | -                                            |
| OpEX of sustainable eligible<br>activities (adjusted to the<br>Taxonomy) (A.1)                       | -           | 1,074,769.62      | 0.78%                  |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | 0.00%                                                          | -                                                                             | -                                          | -                                            |
| <b>A.2 Activities that are eligible but not environmentally sustainable (non-aligned activities)</b> |             |                   |                        |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| 4.1. Electricity generation through<br>solar photovoltaic technology (Year<br>2022)                  | 4.1         | -                 | -                      |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | 0.34%                                                          | -                                                                             | F                                          | -                                            |
| 4.3. Electricity generation from<br>wind energy (Year 2022)                                          | 4.3         | -                 | -                      |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | 5.02%                                                          | -                                                                             | F                                          | -                                            |
| OpEX of sustainable eligible<br>activities (adjusted to the<br>Taxonomy) (A.1)                       | -           | -                 | -                      |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | 5.36%                                                          | -                                                                             | -                                          | -                                            |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                    | -           | 1,074,769.62      | 0.78%                  |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            | 5.36%                                                          | -                                                                             | -                                          | -                                            |
| <b>A. NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES</b>                                                                    |             |                   |                        |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| OpEX of non-eligible activities (B)                                                                  | -           | 135,918,095.88    | 99.22%                 |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                        | -           | 136,992,865.50    | 100.00<br>%            |                                         |                                     |                                                  |                                      |                                                          |                                                |                                          |                                                      |                            |                                                                |                                                                               |                                            |                                              |

## Page 225

#### **13. Corporate Governance Annual Report**

The Annual Report on Corporate Governance shall be presented on the CNMV website.

#### **14. Annual Report on the Remuneration of Directors**

The Annual Report on Remuneration of Directors shall be presented on the CNMV website.
