## Page 73

With regard to future maintenance, construction and modernisation measures, there is a risk that the craftsmen and construction industry will not have sufficient capacity and materials to process the corresponding orders in a timely manner. This may lead to delays in the maintenance and modernisation measures planned by TAG, particularly in the area of energy-efficient refurbishment, and, as a result of the high demand, to additional unplanned price increases.

The concentration of TAG's business activities on individual regions within Germany may also lead to dependence on regional market developments and expansion risks. This applies in particular to the eastern German states, where the majority (more than 75%) of TAG's property holdings are located.

TAG's strategic focus on medium-sized cities and large metropolises limits these risks. In addition, selected acquisitions and sales of residential real estate strengthen the focus on a high-yield portfolio. In preparation for acquisition and sales decisions, general and regional market developments are constantly monitored and the properties on offer are analysed in detail with regard to their condition, location and rents. Potential transactions undergo a thorough due diligence process for the valuation of earnings potential, synergies and rental and cost risks. These factors are evaluated in the same way for TAG's entire property portfolio and are also taken into account in potential sales of portfolios.

The individual environmental and industry risks described are considered medium overall, having been classified as low to medium in the previous year. After many years of growth, the German property market in 2023 was characterised by falling property prices and significantly reduced transaction volumes for the second year running, while construction and modernisation costs remained high. Economic development in Germany also continued to decline over the course of 2023.

Even if the probability of occurrence of the risk of delays and higher prices due to capacity bottlenecks in maintenance and modernisation measures is high in our view, TAG's activities in this regard are not very extensive compared to the industry as a whole. In addition, this risk has already been countered for several years by the further expansion of the Group's own craftsmen service. If such risks materialise, this would mean that the expected development described in the forecast report presented above (section "Group forecast for the 2024 financial year"), in particular FFO I, would not be achieved.

In contrast to the German property market, we believe that the competitive situation in Poland is still less intense. In particular, the residential rental market targeted by TAG is currently hardly occupied by institutional investors. In addition to the resulting opportunities, there is also the risk that future market developments will be misjudged and that planned rental or project results cannot be realised to the expected extent. Conventional property development projects, in which flats are built and then sold to private individuals (primarily as owner-occupiers), are being realised by numerous project developers in Poland. Here, too, this is currently leading to rising property prices and bottlenecks in the availability of construction companies and craftsmen. Overall, the environment and sector risks in the Polish market are valued as low to medium.

## Page 74

#### **Regulatory and political risks**

TAG is exposed to general risks arising from changes in the framework conditions resulting from legislation or other regulations. In addition to tax law, such regulations can affect general tenancy law in particular, but also construction law, labour law and environmental law.

With regard to future tenancy law in particular, there is a risk of significant disadvantageous changes for landlords, some of which have already been implemented in law. In addition to the tightening of the so-called "rent brake" in accordance with Section 556d of the German Civil Code (BGB) in previous years and the now reduced apportionment for modernisation expenses in accordance with Section 559 BGB, further regulatory measures were implemented in 2023, such as the amendments to the new Buildings Energy Act (GEG) passed by the Bundestag and Bundesrat in September 2023. As a result, heating systems with 65% renewable energy must be installed in new buildings within new development areas from 1 January 2024. From 2026 (e.g. large cities) or 2028 at the latest, the use of at least 65% renewable energy, linked to municipal heating planning, will be mandatory for all new heating systems. Transitional periods apply to new buildings outside new development areas and existing properties. New oil or gas heating systems may continue to be installed until the deadlines for heat planning expire. The risk from the consequences of the GEG, which may have a negative impact on refurbishment costs and cannot be fully passed on to tenants, is considered to be high. Further tightening may occur in the future as a result of the further implementation of the federal government's programme. Furthermore, the CO<sup>2</sup> price has been EUR 45 per tonne since 1 January 2024. From 2025, it is set to rise to EUR 55 per tonne and from 2026 it will be a minimum of EUR 55 and a maximum of EUR 65. From 2027, CO<sup>2</sup> emissions trading for building heating and the transport sector is to be introduced across the EU, which would mean that the CO<sup>2</sup> price would be set on the market from then on.

The risk of unfavourable changes in tenancy law is classified as medium for TAG. Although the probability of occurrence is certainly high, the economic impact for TAG, as far as can be seen at present, is not material, as the Group's investment focus is neither on rent increases due to modernisation levies nor on sharp rent increases in metropolitan areas, which are particularly dependent on the "rent brake" and the development of the rent index. In our view, however, the current discussions are mainly focused on two areas, namely the sharp rise in new rents in major cities in recent years and extensive rent increases as a result of modernisation measures. Many tenants fear that current or future rents will no longer be affordable. This is to be counteracted by stricter rent regulation. However, TAG's investments are not made in Germany's major metropolises, but deliberately in the wider catchment areas of the metropolises and in medium-sized cities. The majority of our residential portfolio is located in Eastern Germany. TAG's largest locations include the cities and regions of Salzgitter, Gera and Erfurt. Modernisation programmes for existing tenants are only carried out to a very limited extent (these contributed only 0.1% to total rental growth in the 2023 financial year (previous year: 0.1%)); the main focus of investments is on vacancy reduction.

Against this backdrop, we do not believe that the debate surrounding stricter regulation (in particular restrictions on rent increases) will have a significant impact on our locations. Nevertheless, there is a risk that in the event of stricter nationwide regulation of rents, TAG will no longer be able to increase its rents, or only to a limited extent. Although this would not jeopardise the Group's portfolio, it could have a significant negative impact on the future development of rents (like-for-like rental growth), FFO I and NTA presented in the forecast.

In contrast to Germany, Poland has no independent tenancy law. Tenancy agreements are only subject to the provisions of general civil law, meaning that there is largely freedom of contract between owners and tenants. Even if regulation of the rental housing market is not currently being discussed and is also unlikely in our view, it cannot be

## Page 75

ruled out that regulatory initiatives will also be launched in Poland in later years if the trend of rising rents observed in recent years continues. In this case, it cannot be ruled out that such regulatory initiatives could have a negative impact on individual earnings components of letting, such as apportionable operating costs or permissible (net) rents. However, these risks are considered to have a low impact on the Polish activities.

All other individual regulatory and political risks are assessed as low to medium, meaning that this risk category is valued as medium overall. Compared to last year, where the overall assessment was low to medium, this category reflects in particular the impact of new legislative initiatives (such as the GEG) and the continuing deterioration of the situation on the rental property market. Corresponding developments could have a negative impact on the expectations presented in the forecast report, particularly with regard to the development of rents and therefore FFO I.

#### **ESG risks**

ESG (Environmental Social Governance) issues are increasingly taking centre stage, including in risk management. These topics include, for example, future legal regulations to reduce CO<sup>2</sup> emissions in the housing stock and disclosure requirements on the sustainability of business activities as part of the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which came into force at the beginning of 2023, the increased demand for needs-based conversions and senior citizen programmes due to demographic changes, as well as ground floor flats and barrier-free and senior citizen-friendly flats. The need for social support services and advice on general issues in residential neighbourhoods is increasing. Other aspects include the rise in consumption costs, especially energy and water consumption, or increased damage caused by heavy rain and storms, resulting in higher insurance costs.

TAG is increasingly offering counselling and social services. Rising energy costs are being countered by continuously renewing the heating systems. Further energy efficiency measures are being successively implemented in the buildings.

In addition, the regulatory pressure on owners of unrenovated existing buildings to achieve climate targets could increase in the future. The investments required for the energy-efficient refurbishment of the portfolio are generally subject to the risk of a shortage of personnel and raw materials to carry out the refurbishment projects, which could make the refurbishment more expensive or delay it.

TAG published its decarbonisation strategy for the German residential portfolio at the beginning of the 2022 financial year. According to this strategy, additional investments (compared to the previous investment level) totalling around EUR 690m, or around EUR 30m p.a., will be required to achieve the goal of a virtually climate-neutral portfolio by 2045. There is a risk that due to cost increases, unavailable capacities or limited financing options, this target can only be achieved with, possibly significantly, higher costs or with a delay. The profitability of the planned measures may also be lower or even significantly lower than expected due to further regulatory intervention, such as more restrictive rent increase options for modernisations in the future.

## Page 76

Overall, the risks are still classified as low, but as increasingly relevant. If modernisation measures and measures in connection with new energy and metrological requirements, which are necessary to reduce CO<sup>2</sup> emissions across the entire German housing stock, cannot be passed on to tenants or only to a lesser extent than expected, this would have a negative impact on rental income and expenses and therefore on FFO I in particular.

#### **Rental risks**

A significant vacancy rate and the loss or reduction of rental income can lead to a loss of income and cause additional costs that may not be able to be passed on to tenants. An increase in vacancies may result from lower future demand for housing if, for example, the number of households in individual regions declines due to demographic developments or as a result of large employers in the region moving away or downsizing.

In the area of residential real estate, a standardised credit check is carried out on potential tenants for new lettings. In addition, vacancy reduction is one of TAG's strategic goals, thus reducing vacancy costs while at the same time realising existing rental potential. TAG secures long-term tenancies by actively managing the portfolio and sustainably maintaining existing tenants. In addition, receivables management ensures continuous incoming payments and can promptly counteract possible defaults.

The risk of rent defaults (rental default risk) exists in individual cases, but we currently consider it to be low overall. All in all, there were impairments on rent receivables at Group level in the 2023 financial year, including the impairments recognised separately in the service result, of EUR 6.7m (previous year: EUR 5.9m). In relation to the net actual rent of EUR 350.8m (previous year: EUR 339.9m), this corresponds to a bad debt ratio of 1.9% (previous year: 1.3%). In the separate financial statements of TAG Immobilien AG itself, rent defaults are only of minor significance.

Since 2022, the Ukraine war in particular has had a negative impact on global supply chains and energy prices. Based on data from the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), the average price of natural gas for apartment buildings fell to an average of EUR 13.59 ct/kWh in 2023 after peaking at EUR 19.81 ct/kWh in the fourth quarter of 2022; in 2021, the average price of natural gas was EUR 6.35 ct/kWh. The average electricity price for households in 2023 was around 14% higher than the electricity price in the second half of 2022.

Even though there was no significant impact on TAG's operating business in the 2023 financial year, future developments in this area are difficult to predict, and the individual risk assessment therefore remains medium. The development of energy prices is mainly influenced by external effects that are beyond TAG's control. If tenants are unable to adjust their advance payments for operating costs to rising prices in the future or to make additional payments resulting from the annual service charge statement, the risk of bad debt losses from letting could increase significantly and also reduce the potential for future rent increases.

## Page 77

Future rental risks are dependent on both population trends and new construction activity in Germany. They are categorised as low in terms of their probability of occurrence due to the expected continued high demand for residential space. An increase in the vacancy rate would have a negative impact on rents and therefore on FFO I in particular. The expectations presented in this regard in the forecast for the 2023 financial year could not be achieved in such a situation.

In contrast to Germany, the rental property market in Poland is much smaller. The ownership rate in Poland is currently around 80–85%, while in Germany it is only around 45–50%. Against this backdrop, there is a risk for TAG that the flats offered for rent in Poland will not meet with sufficient demand in the future, as the ownership rate will not decrease, even in the large Polish cities targeted by TAG, but will actually increase further. In combination with higher new construction activity, this could lead to an oversupply.

However, this risk is considered to be low. The market for residential lettings in Poland has seen a significant increase in demand in recent years, as can be seen from the steady rise in rents. On the contrary, we believe that the Polish rental housing market is characterised by a supply deficit. It is one of the least saturated housing markets in Europe. In addition, the absolute size of the Polish market with around 38m inhabitants and the favourable demographic trend support the assumption that there will also be growing demand in the future, not only for owneroccupied flats but also for rental flats.

## Page 78

#### **Portfolio valuation risks**

Valuations of the fair values recognised in the consolidated financial statements and the properties reported under current assets are generally based on appraisals. These valuations are currently carried out twice a year by independent, recognised experts. The market values are dependent on various factors, some of which are objective factors such as economic developments or interest rates, as well as other external factors that are subject to judgement, such as the development of rent levels and vacancy rates. In addition, contaminated sites in the portfolios, such as lead pipes, can have an influence on the valuation.

In addition, the valuer must also take into account discretionary, qualitative factors, such as the valuation of the location and quality of the properties or the level of achievable rental revenues. As a result, impairments may be recognised in the balance sheet and there is a high degree of volatility in the consolidated result. There is no direct impact on TAG's liquidity.

The assumptions used for the valuation of the properties are made by the independent appraiser on the basis of his professional experience and are subject to uncertainty. For the effects of possible fluctuations in the valuation parameters, without taking into account potential interdependencies between the individual parameters, please refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, section "Notes to the balance sheet - Investment properties".

Rising interest rates could result in further losses in value in the portfolio valuation, as in this situation, at least in the medium term, investors' return expectations and thus the capitalisation interest rates used in the valuation model should also rise. Corresponding losses in the portfolio valuation can also occur if rents fall or vacancy rates rise.

In Poland, the risks of an incorrect market assessment of the still relatively young and small market for residential lettings and changes in demand for corresponding properties could also lead to valuation risks. In addition, due to the comparatively recent history of this market, it may only be possible to estimate comparative parameters for the valuation within wider ranges. Overall, the portfolio valuation risks are categorised as medium due to possible negative market developments.

We classify portfolio valuation risks in Germany as medium despite the continued strong demand for flats, coupled with insufficient new construction activity and the expected further increase in rents. This is mainly due to the significant rise in interest rates since the beginning of 2022. If balance sheet losses occur, these will not affect liquidity, but will increase the leverage ratio (LTV). This could make future financing more difficult or impossible or even lead to a breach of financial covenants if substantial further impairments are not expected from today's perspective.

## Page 79

#### **Project development risks**

Since the 2020 financial year, TAG has also been active as a project developer on the Polish property market to a significant extent. On the expense side, this can be associated with significant risks if construction projects entail unplanned costs or rising costs for building materials or labour, or if their implementation takes longer than planned. Although this has not been the case for projects in Poland in recent financial years, such cost risks are inherent in the project development business against the backdrop of rising inflation also in Poland. On the income side, there is a risk of incorrect sales price calculations, particularly if the time between planning and completion of the project is longer than planned.

This means that there are completion risks, procurement risks and construction risks within the project development business, which TAG only operates in Poland and not in Germany. Although we consider individual project development risks to be low to medium, we categorise the total sum of project risks as high. As at the reporting date, this had no impact on the valuation of the recognised project developments in Poland. If these risks were to materialise, NTA and FFO II could be negatively impacted and the expectations presented with regard to these key figures may not be achieved.

## Page 80

#### **Liquidity risks**

TAG's business activities expose it to various risks of a financial nature, primarily liquidity and interest rate risks. Risk management is performed by the central finance department on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the corporate bodies. Potential default risks in connection with the investment of Group liquidity and the conclusion of derivative financial instruments and other financial transactions are minimised by monitoring counterparty risk and selecting financial institutions with high credit ratings.

For liquidity planning and liquidity control, both in the short and medium term, the following instruments are used for reporting to the Management Board and current business transactions are mirrored with the planning data: daily liquidity report summarising all accounts, monthly liquidity planning for the next twelve months and annual medium-term liquidity planning for the next three years.

TAG is also dependent on obtaining debt capital at appropriate conditions to refinance expiring loans or for acquisitions. In the case of unsecured loans (e.g. corporate bonds and promissory notes), it is essential for this financing that TAG continues to have an investment grade rating.

A further crisis on the financial markets could make TAG's debt financing considerably more difficult and lead to liquidity problems. Should this result in problems servicing current loans, lenders could, as a last resort, arrange for the forced realisation of real estate collateral. Such distress sales would lead to considerable financial disadvantages for TAG. In connection with promissory notes and bonds maturing in the next three years, the resulting risk is considered to be medium.

The Group has loan agreements totalling EUR 2,197m (previous year: EUR 2,453.8m) for which the banks have imposed financial covenants with regard to debt service coverage ratios and equity or debt ratios. A breach of these covenants could result in an early repayment obligation if the curing options are not utilised. TAG Immobilien AG itself has EUR 50m (previous year: EUR 300m) in liabilities from bank loans with covenants in its separate financial statements.

Similarly, credit terms have been agreed for the corporate and convertible bonds and promissory note loans issued, non-compliance with which can lead to a liquidity risk. In the event of a breach of credit terms, for example in the event of a change of control, these corporate bonds, as well as the loans mentioned below in the section "Disclosures pursuant to Section 289a HGB and Section 315a HGB", can be cancelled early for repayment.

TAG considers liquidity risks to be medium. Although the Group has sufficient liquidity and a breach of financial covenants is considered very unlikely, there is currently considerable uncertainty on the capital markets as a result of the sharp rise in interest rates over the past two years. There is also a risk that lending banks, which are currently the TAG Group's main source of financing, will have to reduce their financing commitments in the real estate sector or offer them on terms that are less favourable for TAG due to negative economic developments or stricter regulatory requirements.

As of the date of this report, TAG has credit ratings from the rating agencies Moody's (Ba1, stable outlook) and S&P Global (BBB-, negative outlook). Should TAG no longer be rated investment grade by S&P Global in the future, there would be no effects on financial liabilities, with the exception of the 0.5 percentage point increase in the interest rate on promissory note loans with maturities of between three and seven years totalling EUR 74.5 m. In particular, there
