## Page 45

<span id="page-44-0"></span>motive and Commercial Vehicles products. Rising demand for food and agricultural goods together with increased construction activity may also generate additional sales in the Commercial Vehicles product area as agricultural machinery is frequently fitted with GRAMMER seating systems. All told, GRAMMER is hoping to generate a continued rise in business in its products by harnessing the opportunities arising from global megatrends.

Automated driving and e-mobility: GRAMMER is a supplier of components for automotive interiors with its seating systems and consoles as well as other decorative and functional parts for vehicle interiors. In contrast to the situation with respect to drivetrain and engine systems, the Company expects the electrification of drivetrains and successive automation to generate new opportunities in view of the demand for higher-quality and more functional interior components meeting new driving requirements.

#### Strategic opportunities

Alongside market opportunities, strategic opportunities may also arise for GRAMMER.

Non-organic growth: This entails examining and making use of opportunities for exogenous growth. In this connection, the Company continuously observes its markets for any opportunities for acquisitions and partnerships. If GRAMMER sees any opportunities for reinforcing its market position or for expanding or supplementing its product range, it explores the available options. As opportunities for non-organic growth hinge on diverse factors beyond control, it is not possible to make any forecasts on the scope available to GRAMMER for acting on these opportunities.

Efficiency measures: The Company works constantly on measures for improving its efficiency and on initiatives for cutting costs with a view to improving its strategic competitive position. In this connection, GRAMMER also regularly reviews its global development and production network.

Innovation: Projects in the research and development pipeline harbor opportunities for entering new market segments or widening market share, provided that viable products arise from this pipeline in the future. Both product areas of the Group are working on innovative new solutions aimed at helping customers address the requirements of the future. GRAMMER is seeking on an ongoing basis to be recognized as an innovative premium partner by its customers and to tap market potential by means of new developments.

#### **3.7 Assessment of risks and opportunities**

After a thorough review of the current risk situation, the Company has come to the conclusion that the precautions and measures adopted by the GRAMMER Group take appropriate account of the risks that have been identified. Compared to the previous year, the risk situation has changed in that geopolitical issues have become even more explosive and a greater focus is being placed on financial and economic risks on account of the rise in interest rates, whereas risks in connection with COVID-19 have become less relevant. Market risks in the sense of a global recession are higher. The risks currently known lead GRAMMER to assume that it is not exposed to any factors that are liable to jeopardize its going-concern status and that additional risk-mitigating effects may arise from the opportunities available, especially as the risks have been incorporated in corporate planning.

#### **4. Business development forecast for the GRAMMER Group**

#### **4.1 Expected economic environment**

#### **4.1.1 Macroeconomic environment**

The IMF expects economic growth to remain low in 2024. Experts believe that inflation will decline compared with the previous year, which saw the highest level for many years, but that it will remain elevated. Global inflation is anticipated at 5.8% in 2024 as against 6.8% last year. In the IMF's view, many major economic regions will not begin to approach the inflation targets set by the central banks until after 2025. Ongoing uncertainty regarding the future geo-economic environment is contributing to a general reluctance to invest, especially in view of the potential further escalation of geopolitical crises.

In its January 2024 forecast, the IMF anticipates growth in global gross domestic product of 3.1% for the current year. On the heels of an already weak previous year, global economic growth is therefore likely to remain low overall and below the historic average (2000-2019) of 3.8%. In AMERICAS, economic growth is forecast at 2.1% in the US, 1.7% in Brazil and 2.7% in Mexico. The continued restrictive nature of monetary policy and reduced labor demand will likely cause consumer demand to drop in the US. However, corporate investment is expected to pick up further thanks to government subsidy programs. In the EMEA region, low growth of 0.9% is anticipated for the eurozone, with GDP in Germany set to rise by 0.5% in 2024. The IMF expects the Chinese economy to expand by 4.6%, although growth momentum could continue to falter if the real estate sector crisis gets worse.

#### **4.1.2 Sector environment** Automotive

#### Car market expected to deteriorate

S&P Global Mobility's forecast from December 2023 anticipates a slight decline in passenger car production figures in 2024. The experts expect that approximately 0.4 million fewer vehicles will be produced worldwide this year than in the previous year, a decrease of 0.4%. While production in AMERICAS is set to pick up by 1.0%, trends in all other regions are negative, reflecting fears that pressure on inventories as a result of slower incoming orders could have an adverse effect. In EMEA, S&P Global Mobility data indicates lower incoming orders despite targeted price reductions. Production in the region is expected to decline by 1.8%. Meanwhile, APAC is expected to see a slight decrease of 0.4%.

## Page 46

#### Expected automotive production in 2024 compared with the previous year

Image /page/45/Figure/1 description: This image shows a world map with three regions labeled: AMERICAS, EMEA, and APAC. Each region has a percentage value displayed within a circle. AMERICAS has '+1.0%', EMEA has '–1.8%', and APAC has '–0.4%'.

Expected commercial vehicles production (trucks and buses) in 2024 compared with the previous year

Image /page/45/Figure/3 description: This image shows a world map with three regions labeled: AMERICAS, EMEA, and APAC. Each region has a percentage value associated with it. AMERICAS has -0.7%, EMEA has -6.2%, and APAC has +4.1%.

#### Commercial Vehicles

#### APAC drives growth on commercial vehicles market

In the commercial vehicles sector, S&P Global Mobility's December 2023 forecast shows a slight increase of 0.8% in global production volume for the current 2024 financial year. Production is expected to decline by 6.2% in EMEA and 0.7% in AMERICAS. China is the main driver of global growth, with an expected increase of 4.3%. Commercial production volumes in the rest of the APAC region (excluding China) are also expected to rise by 3.7%. Overall, growth of 4.1% is expected for the APAC region (including China).

#### Agricultural machinery industry

The PSR OE Link Q4 Report puts expected global growth in the agricultural machinery industry at 2.1% in 2024. This good performance is primarily due to the expected market recovery in India. India and China were the only major agricultural producers to report declines in 2022. For the current financial year, however, only stagnation is expected in China.

#### Construction machinery industry

PSR OE's forecasts for the construction machinery industry are again positive for 2024. Following a 6.2% decline in global construction machinery production in 2023, growth of 1.3% is forecast for 2024. Trends are particularly positive on markets in the US and Japan, while China and Germany look set to decline further.

#### Material handling

Growth of 0.5% is expected in material handling in 2024. This performance is driven predominantly by the US and China, which can expect to see double-digit growth, while a downturn is anticipated in India and Germany.

#### Railway industry

The railway industry, which particularly benefits from global megatrends such as urbanization, population growth and increased environmental awareness, will likely maintain the growth it has enjoyed in previous years until 2028. PSR OE Link expects global production in the railway industry to grow by an average of 6.0% until 2028. With a share of 60%, the market is dominated by China, where average growth of 4.6% is forecast.

#### Further determinants

The macroeconomic and industry-specific conditions are of key importance for GRAMMER's business performance. However, a number of other factors also play an important role.

The increasing number of shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine and the conflict in the Middle East are likely to continue to have a significant impact on global economic structures and relationships in 2024 and lead to necessary changes. The Russia-Ukraine conflict will continue to pose a significant geopolitical risk in 2024. It has triggered a humanitarian crisis and led to greater risks with regard to capital flows, trade and commodity markets worldwide. The strategic competition between the US and China is another risk to watch out for in 2024. China's increased military presence in the South China Sea, technological advances and ongoing trade tensions with the US have led to increased geopolitical tensions. The increasing conflicts between the superpowers are having a significant impact on the global economy. Any disruption in trade relations between the US and China, for example, will have an impact on the entire global economy. Trade wars and heightened international tensions could slow the move towards increased international cooperation and frictionless trade flows, with S&O Global Market Intelligence data already showing a decline in exports in many countries.

In addition, ongoing energy security concerns are bad news for the global economy and pose greater fiscal, social and political challenges for governments. A sharp rise in COVID-19 cases and/or new mutations of the virus could also further weaken national and international supply chains and disrupt production and exports, leading to global shortages.

## Page 47

<span id="page-46-0"></span>In the shadow of these geopolitical risks, the automotive industry will most likely also face challenges in the current financial year 2024. Electrification in particular will face increasing headwinds due to rising operating costs and the price war between OEMs. Growth in vehicle sales is likely to decline as the pent-up demand created by the shortages of recent years is reduced and economic conditions tighten. As mentioned under geopolitical risks, trade risks will potentially lead to changes in supply chains as OEMs seek to reduce dependence on China.

In addition, the number of corporate insolvencies in Germany is currently on the rise. Temporary special regulations adopted in recent years are coming to an end (suspended obligation to file for insolvency and going concern prognosis). It is therefore extremely important for GRAMMER to closely monitor the financial development of its suppliers and to be prepared at all times to initiate special measures. In the worst-case scenario, supplier defaults could lead to production interruptions and thus to negative effects on earnings, despite the short-term introduction of substitution measures.

#### **4.2 Outlook for the GRAMMER Group in 2024**

At the time of preparing the 2023 annual report, there are indications that the enormously challenging 2023 financial year can expect to be followed by adverse effects in connection with the ongoing difficult macroeconomic environment in the 2024 financial year. In particular, the sharp rise in materials, energy and wage costs, limited economic growth – especially in Germany – and further developments regarding semiconductor supply shortages could continue to impact the Company's economic performance in 2024.

Given the ongoing macroeconomic and industry uncertainties, the GRAMMER Group expects revenue for the current 2024 financial year to remain at the previous year's level of around EUR 2.3 billion (2023: EUR 2.3 billion). GRAMMER forecasts operating EBIT to enjoy substantial year-on-year growth to around EUR 75 million (2023: EUR 56.8 million). The significantly increased earnings forecast reflects the progress made in the "Top 10 measures" program, which is specifically designed to boost the Company's efficiency in the long term. In addition, there is a particular focus on turning around the AMERICAS region. With the targeted margin increase, GRAMMER is on track to achieve an operating EBIT margin of more than 5% by 2025 in line with the medium-term outlook presented in April 2022. However, the full-year forecast will continue to depend largely on the extent to which GRAMMER can once again reach agreements with its customers on passing on cost increases.

#### **5. Statement pursuant to section 315a HGB (German Commercial Code)**

Composition of subscribed capital: GRAMMER AG's subscribed capital as of December 31, 2023 amounted to EUR 39,009,080.32 (2022: EUR 39,009,080.32) and is divided into 15,237,922 bearer shares.

Restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of shares: Each ordinary share grants one vote at the Annual General Meeting and determines the shareholders' share of the profits. This does not include own shares held by the Company, which do not entitle the Company to any rights (section 71b AktG). In the cases set out in section 136 AktG, voting rights from the shares in question are excluded by law. Violations of notification requirements within the meaning of sections 33 (1), (2), 38 (1), 39 (1) of the WpHG (German Securities Trading Act) may result in the loss, at least temporarily, of rights arising from shares and of voting rights in accordance with section 44 WpHG. GRAMMER AG is not aware of any other restrictions on voting rights and, in particular, is not aware of any contractual restrictions. Statutory provisions apply to the exercising of voting rights by intermediaries, shareholder associations, voting rights consultants and other persons who offer shareholders their services in exercising voting rights at the Annual General Meeting. Section 135 AktG applies in particular. In connection with Article 19 (11) of Regulation (EU) No. 596/2014 (Market Abuse Regulation), Executive and Supervisory Board members at GRAMMER AG are subject to certain prohibitions on trading for transactions with GRAMMER AG shares, in particular those conducted at the time of publishing business figures.

Direct or indirect shares in the share capital exceeding 10% of the voting rights: The notes to GRAMMER Group's annual financial statements for 2023 set out detailed information on the voting right notifications received in accordance with section 33 WpHG. The shares in voting rights listed may have been subject to changes after the date stated of which GRAMMER AG was not informed. GRAMMER has not been notified of any direct or indirect shares in the share capital amounting to or exceeding 10% of the voting rights and it is not otherwise aware of any such shares.

There are no shares with special rights conveying control powers.

Type of voting right control if employees hold a share of the Company's capital and do not directly exercise their control rights: There are no employee participation programs. If employees hold a share of the Company's capital, they can exercise the control rights to which they are entitled under these shares directly in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association and the law.

Statutory provisions and stipulations in the articles of association governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the Executive Board or amendments to the articles of association: The members of GRAMMER AG's Executive Board are appointed and dismissed in accordance with the statutory provisions (section 84 and 85 AktG (German Stock Corporation Act) and section 31 MitBestG (German Co-Determination Act)). Article 8 et seq. of the Company's articles of association stipulates that the Executive Board must be composed of at least two members. Any amendments to the Company's articles of association are executed in accordance with section 119 (1), number 5 and 179 (2)

## Page 48

AktG; article 25 of the articles of association governs the passing of resolutions by the Annual General Meeting. Under article 13 (3) of the Company's articles of association, the Supervisory Board may amend the articles of association, provided that such amendments are confined to the wording of the provision in question.

Executive Board's powers to issue or buy back shares: By resolution of the Annual General Meeting on June 23, 2021, the authorization of the Executive Board contained in Section 5 (3) of the articles of association to increase the Company's share capital on one or more occasions by up to EUR 9,402,263.04 against cash and/or non-cash contributions (Authorized Capital 2020) until July 7, 2025, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, was revoked. By resolution of the Annual General Meeting on June 23, 2021, the Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the Company's share capital on one or more occasions on or before June 22, 2026 by issuing new no-par value bearer shares against cash contributions and/or contributions in kind, but by no more than a total of EUR 19,504,537.60 (Authorized Capital 2021). In principle, shareholders are to be granted subscription rights; the statutory subscription right may also be granted in such a way that the new shares are taken up by one or more banks or equivalent companies pursuant to Section 186 (5) sentence 1 of the AktG (German Stock Corporation Act) with the obligation to offer them to shareholders for subscription. The Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholders' subscription rights in certain cases. No use has been made of this authorization to date. There are no authorizations for the Executive Board of GRAMMER AG to issue bonds with warrants and/or convertible bonds. There is no authorization to acquire own shares in accordance with section 71 (1) no. 8. As of December 31, 2023, GRAMMER AG holds 330,050 own shares, all of which were acquired in fiscal year 2006. These 330,050 treasury shares do not carry voting rights and are not entitled to dividends.

Significant agreements of the parent company that are conditional upon a change of control following a takeover bid, and the effects resulting therefrom: In the event of a change of control as a result of a takeover bid, GRAMMER AG's material financing agreements, and especially the promissory note loans placed in 2015 and 2019 which are still held in the total amount of EUR 84.3 million as of December 31, 2023, may be called due immediately. Under the existing syndicated loan agreement dated February 10, 2020 (including its amendment agreements dated August 12, 2020, June 28, 2022 and January 26, 2023) totaling EUR 408.5 million, the lenders have rights of termination and maturity in the event of a change of control. Each lender is individually entitled to these relative to their share of the loan. In the event of a change of control, some of the main customers, suppliers and other cooperation partners also have the right to terminate the contractual agreements with the Company prematurely

The Company has not entered into any compensation agreements with members of the Executive Board or employees in the event of a takeover bid.

Ursensollen, March 13, 2024

Jens Öhlenschläger Jurate Keblyte

GRAMMER Aktiengesellschaft Executive Board

## Page 49

## <span id="page-48-0"></span>**COMBINED SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL REPORT**

Image /page/48/Picture/1 description: The image features the logo of Grammer. The logo consists of a blue circular emblem with three stylized, white, vertical lines that converge at the top, resembling a stylized tree or branching pattern. Below the emblem, the word "GRAMMER" is written in a bold, sans-serif font, also in blue.

## Page 50

## Contents Combined separate non-financial report

| 1.  | Sustainability at GRAMMER                        | 51 |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------|----|
| 1.1 | Organizational structure of sustainability       | 51 |
| 1.2 | Materiality analysis                             | 52 |
| 1.3 | Support for the UN Sustainable Development Goals | 52 |
| 1.4 | Inclusion of all stakeholders                    | 54 |
| 1.5 | Ratings                                          | 54 |
| 1.6 | Risk evaluation of non-financial matters         | 54 |
| 2.  | Responsible corporate governance                 | 55 |
| 2.1 | Compliance and combating corruption and bribery  | 55 |
| 2.2 | Data protection                                  | 56 |
| 2.3 | Information security                             | 56 |
| 3.  | Products                                         | 57 |
| 3.1 | Customer health and safety                       | 57 |
| 3.2 | Sustainable product development                  | 58 |
| 3.3 | Sustainable materials                            | 59 |
| 3.4 | Innovations                                      | 60 |
| 4.  | Environment                                      | 60 |
| 4.1 | Energy                                           | 61 |
| 4.2 | CO2 emissions                                    | 61 |
| 4.3 | Waste                                            | 62 |
| 4.4 | Water                                            | 63 |
| 4.5 | Biodiversity                                     | 63 |

| 5.  | Supply chain                                                    | 64 |
|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 5.1 | Supplier management for environmental and<br>social standards   | 64 |
| 5.2 | Procurement of commodities from an<br>environmental perspective | 65 |
| 5.3 | Working conditions and human rights                             | 66 |
| 6.  | Employees and community                                         | 67 |
| 6.1 | Employee satisfaction                                           | 67 |
| 6.2 | Employee development                                            | 68 |
| 6.3 | Diversity and equal opportunities                               | 69 |
| 6.4 | Occupational health and safety                                  | 70 |
| 6.5 | Social commitment                                               | 71 |
| 7.  | Disclosures in accordance with Regulation (EU)                  |    |
|     |                                                                 |    |
|     | 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)                                  | 72 |
| 7.1 | Background and objectives                                       | 72 |
| 7.2 | Reporting by GRAMMER AG for the 2023 financial year             | 72 |
| 7.3 | Taxonomy-eligible economic activities                           | 72 |
| 7.4 | Alignment assessment                                            | 72 |
| 7.5 | Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned turnover                 | 73 |
| 7.6 | Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned<br>CapEx and OpEx        | 73 |
| 8.  | About this report                                               | 82 |

**GRAMMER** Combined separate non-financial report 2023 **50**

## Page 51

## <span id="page-50-0"></span>Combined separate non-financial report 2023

For GRAMMER, sustainability begins with the people who work at the Company and who are linked to it. It covers such aspects as research and development (R&D), procurement and production as well as the finished products and the end-of-life recycling of product components. With the expansion of its global presence and the organization's broad footprint, the GRAMMER Group is also supporting this message internationally.

In 2022, GRAMMER defined clear climate protection targets and continued to work on them in the 2023 reporting year. The Company is well on track to reduce Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions by 25% by 2025. It also intends to reduce emissions by 50% by 2030 and by 100% by 2040.

GRAMMER has started recording Scope 3 emissions in parallel with these efforts. A team is working hard to develop realistic targets for these emissions. At the same time, the Company is stepping up its efforts to make increased use of sustainable materials. To this end, it has established a team with responsibility for the implementation of these materials.

We actively integrate suppliers, partners and service providers into our sustainability strategy. As a result, we were well prepared for the new Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz (LkSG - German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act), which came into effect on January 1, 2023. We have taken a range of measures to facilitate this, including the establishment of a human rights officer, the implementation of a human rights policy, the introduction of software to monitor our suppliers' ability to supply, the establishment of a whistleblower system and the updating of our Code of Conduct (CoC) and Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC).

The positive results of our sustainability initiatives have also translated into higher ratings from rating agencies: Despite a significant change to the rating methodology, our EcoVadis score improved from 56 to 58 out of 100 points last year. In 2023, GRAM-MER received a B grade from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for climate protection, with its water security rating improving from C to B-.

#### **1. Sustainability at GRAMMER**

The GRAMMER Group, based in Ursensollen (Germany), is a global company that operates in two business segments: GRAMMER develops and produces high-quality interior and operating systems and innovative thermoplastic components for the global automotive industry. GRAMMER is a full-service provider of driver and passenger seats for trucks, buses, trains and off-road vehicles. We are committed to sustainability and have embedded its economic, ethical and ecological principles in our corporate guidelines.

We aspire to make thinking and acting sustainably an integral part of the Company's DNA. To us, accepting responsibility for people, society and the environment means not putting a strain on people and nature as far as possible and furthering their ability to regenerate. We take the interests of all our stakeholders into account, further our employees' interests and have introduced uniform ISO-certified environmental management for all our locations worldwide. At the end of the first quarter of 2024, an ISO-certified energy management system will have been introduced at over half our locations worldwide. We are aiming to implement energy management and occupational health and safety management systems around the world by the end of 2024.

#### **1.1 Organizational structure of sustainability**

We optimized the organizational structure to coordinate sustainability aspects internationally across the GRAMMER Group even more effectively in 2023. The structure is designed to drive the implementation and promotion of sustainability still further.

CSR representatives, who report directly to the global Corporate Social Responsibility team (CSR team), were appointed for each region (EMEA, AMERICAS and APAC). We are also in the process of establishing sustainability teams in each plant consisting of permanent contact persons from various departments, such as HR, Production, Quality or Plant Management. These teams will regularly report to the regional CSR representatives in meetings.

The CSR team maintains regular dialog with the CSR Council, which GRAMMER established in 2015. Besides the Executive Board, the members consist of Group area managers from the first management level below the Executive Board:

- Research and Development
- Legal
- Compliance
- Controlling
- Finance
- Accounting
- Investor Relations
- HR
- Production

## Page 52

- <span id="page-51-0"></span>• Supply Chain Management
- Quality
- Health, Security and Environmental Management
- IT
- Marketing and Communication
- Sales
- Data Protection

and from the three regions EMEA, AMERICAS, APAC and the two product areas. Through the CSR Council, we can guarantee that sustainability is firmly embedded and continually developed in line with corporate strategy and statutory requirements. The units represented on the CSR Council are responsible for implementing the strategic CSR objectives.

These objectives are grouped under the company-wide "Sustainable Company" initiative. Goals to be achieved in the medium and long term were defined for five action areas: energy and resource efficiency, efficient use of materials, avoidance of waste and recycling, reduction of emissions and development of sustainable products.

#### **1.2 Materiality analysis**

In the fourth quarter of 2023, work started on conducting a new materiality analysis in accordance with the principle of double materiality laid down in the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and defining material aspects with a positive and negative impact as well as material opportunities and risks along the entire value chain. These aspects were subsequently assessed by various internal stakeholders and checked in various validation steps.

However, since the results of the new materiality analysis do not cover the entire reporting period, the NFR (non-financial report) is still based on the 14 material aspects of the materiality analysis conducted in 2020.

| Good corporate<br>governance                    | Products                           | Environment             | Supply chain                                | Employees and<br>community           |
|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Compliance                                      | Sustainable product<br>development | CO2 emissions           | Working conditions<br>and human rights      | Employee satisfaction                |
| Data security, infor-<br>mation and IT security | Material efficiency                | Energy and<br>resources | Sustainable procure-<br>ment of commodities | Occupational health<br>and safety    |
|                                                 | Customer health<br>and safety      | Waste                   |                                             | Diversity and equal<br>opportunities |
|                                                 |                                    | Green Company           |                                             | Corporate citizenship                |

#### **1.3 Support for the UN Sustainable Development Goals**

As an international operator, GRAMMER actively contributes to the achievement of the Global Sustainability Goals. Adopted in 2015, the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise 17 objectives aimed at making the world more sustainable and fairer by 2030. To highlight the relevance of the SDGs and to make our contribution visible, we are focusing on five subject areas and their goals to which we can contribute as a company:

## Page 71

#### <span id="page-70-0"></span>**Outlook**

The ISO 45001 certification of all GRAMMER locations is to be completed by the end of 2024. We also intend to finalize the implementation of the uniform health and safety organization in all locations. Moreover, various information campaigns and health and safety training events will be organized to further reduce the number of accidents and to promote the health of our employees.

#### **GOAL**

– Introduction of ISO 45001 occupational health and safety certification at all GRAMMER locations by the end of 2024

#### **6.5 Social Commitment**

At GRAMMER, besides protecting the environment and the climate, sustainability also means accepting social responsibility and seeking to find a balance between the interests of employees, shareholders, customers and society at large. We therefore support a number of social projects, educational institutions and voluntary activities at our sites around the world. In doing so, we always observe the principles of our Code of Conduct and our global sponsorship policies.

Being involved in social projects can have a lot of advantages for companies: The commitment to the public interest has a positive effect on society, the environment and employees. At the same time, it improves their reputation, which can help them to attract new employees. In order to fully take advantage of these opportunities, it is important to manage social engagement globally so that it fits with the company's strategy. One challenge can be giving employees enough time from their daily duties to coordinate social projects and setting aside firm budgets. Moreover, it is not always easy to choose projects that will demonstrably benefit society, employees and the environment as their impact is often difficult to measure.

#### **Our strategic approach**

Our donations and sponsorship activities focus on assisting social facilities and projects. Moreover, GRAMMER supports sports, concentrating in particular on young people in different team sports. In the area of secondary and tertiary education, we take part in various partnerships and development and sponsorship programs. The goal is to prepare young people for the employment market. We do not support political parties or similar lobby groups.

In order to even better combine individual employee engagement at locations with the Company's support, a rough concept has been drawn up that we will develop further. The Strategy, Marketing, Communication and CSR department is responsible for social engagement at GRAMMER.

#### **Global social initiatives**

GRAMMER was again involved in social projects around the world in 2023. We carried out various activities as part of the "Green GRAMMER Week" at our Brazilian plant in Atibaia, including promoting environmental awareness in children aged from 6 to 10. Recyclable materials such as foam, textiles and pallet wood were used there to make products for donation. We started a children's summer camp in Beijing (China) to inspire and promote interest in science and environmentally friendly technology among the younger generation. These initiatives in Atibaia and Beijing successfully combine social and environmental aspects and reflect our commitment as a "Sustainable Company."

Employees participated in a special initiative at the Ursensollen and Haselmühl (Germany) plants. GRAMMER employees fulfilled the Christmas wishes of children from low-income families under the motto "Wish Tree." In total 242 packages were handed over to give these children a special, joyful Christmas. This campaign emphasizes our commitment to social responsibility and sustainability.

Image /page/70/Picture/14 description: A group of four men stand behind a large collection of wrapped Christmas presents, with a decorated Christmas tree in the background. Two of the men are on the left side of the image, standing next to a sign that reads "WUNSCHBAUM" in large letters. The other two men are on the right side of the image, standing behind the presents. The presents are stacked in piles and in blue and gray plastic crates. The Christmas tree is decorated with ornaments and lights. The background of the image is a large window with a view of a building.

In response to the severe earthquake in Turkey and Syria at the beginning of February 2023, GRAMMER donated EUR 10,000 to Aktion Deutschland Hilft e.V. – a relief organization active on the ground in crisis regions. This financial support helped provide immediate assistance.

#### **Outlook**

In 2024, we intend to continue supporting our employees' volunteer work around the world, devise a comprehensive concept for social engagement and embed the issue even more deeply into the Company's structures.

#### **GOALS**

- Improving and aiding volunteer work by GRAMMER employees around the world
- Fleshing out a concept for social engagement and embedding it in structures at GRAMMER locations around the world

## Page 72

#### <span id="page-71-0"></span>**7. Disclosures in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation)**

#### **7.1 Background and objectives**

The European Union (EU) has made the process of transforming Europe's economy into a greener and more environmentally friendly system a priority for its political action. Channeling cash flows into sustainable investment is seen as the key to success. In the Taxonomy, the EU has created a classification system that classifies economic activities as Taxonomy-aligned if they are mentioned in the Regulation and satisfy its requirements. The requirements include proof that the activity makes a positive contribution to at least one of the six environmental objectives. In addition to a positive contribution, it must do no significant harm to any of the other environmental objectives. Moreover, there must be proof of compliance with minimum social standards and governance aspects.

#### **7.2 Reporting by GRAMMER AG for the 2023 financial year**

For the 2023 financial year, for the third year in a row, GRAMMER AG must report on the two environmental objectives of "climate change mitigation" and "climate change adaptation." The reporting obligation includes disclosures on the shares of turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating expenditure (OpEx) that relate to Taxonomy-eligible and non-Taxonomy-eligible economic activities as well as disclosures on the share of existing and newly added Taxonomy-aligned economic activities of the above-mentioned performance indicators.

For the other environmental objectives "water and marine resources," "circular economy," "pollution prevention" and "biodiversity and ecosystems," disclosures must be provided on the shares of turnover, CapEx and OpEx that relate to Taxonomy-eligible and non-Taxonomy-eligible economic activities for the 2023 financial year. The disclosures take into account all the companies consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.

#### **7.3 Taxonomy-eligible economic activities**

GRAMMER AG operates in two business segments: GRAMMER develops and produces high-quality interior and operating systems and innovative thermoplastic components for the global automotive industry. GRAMMER produces driver and passenger seats for trucks, buses, trains and commercial vehicles.

Sustainability is embedded into the corporate strategy of the GRAMMER Group and is divided into five action areas: In addition to the development of sustainable products, these include cutting direct and indirect emissions, the efficient use of energy, commodities and materials, increasing the recycling rate and optimizing the carbon footprint in its supply chain and its own products.

In the company-wide strategic "Green Company" initiative that was launched in 2020 and renamed "Sustainable Company" in the course of 2022, GRAMMER is seeking to advance sustainability solutions throughout the Company as a whole. Furthermore, GRAMMER is striving for the common goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% by 2030 and by 100% by 2040, thereby playing its part in achieving the 1.5 degree goal of the Paris Agreement.

All relevant business areas were taken into account in the review of the Taxonomy eligibility of GRAMMER's economic activities. A central result was that GRAMMER's primary economic activities can be assigned to the two activities 3.18. Manufacture of automotive and mobility components and 3.19. Manufacture of rail rolling stock constituents. The economic activities of GRAMMER AG must therefore be assigned to the NACE codes C.29.3 Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles and C.30.2 Manufacture of railway locomotives and rolling stock.

The following economic activities with the corresponding NACE codes were also identified as part of GRAMMER AG's activities:

6.5. Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (N77.11 Renting and leasing of cars and light motor vehicles – with total weight of 3.5 t or less)

7.3. Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment (F43.2 Electrical, plumbing and other construction installation activities)

7.4. Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings (and on parking spaces attached to buildings) (F42 Civil engineering)

7.5 Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings (F43.2 Construction installation)

7.6. Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies (F42 Civil engineering)

7.7. Acquisition and ownership of buildings (F41.1 Development of building projects; developer, F41.2 Construction of residential and non-residential buildings)

9.1. Close to market research, development and innovation (M72.1 Research and experimental development on natural sciences, engineering, agriculture and medicine)

#### **7.4 Alignment assessment**

GRAMMER has produced a procedural description for assessing alignment with the requirements of the Taxonomy Regulation and rolled it out in three regions. These have been addressed by the relevant locations in their region. The assessment of whether the economic activity makes a substantial positive contribution and

## Page 73

<span id="page-72-0"></span>whether it does no significant harm to the other environmental objectives was performed by plant/site managers with the support of the local Accounting department and Plant Controlling. The individual results reported were consolidated and verified, first by regional Accounting and then by Accounting at the GRAMMER Group.

By contrast, the review of compliance with minimum safeguards in accordance with Article 18 of the Taxonomy Regulation in the areas of human rights, anti-corruption, bribery and fair competition was performed centrally for GRAMMER AG by Group Accounting with the support of the CSR, Legal, Compliance, Risk Management and Supply Chain Management departments.

The audit procedures for the substantial contribution, the criteria for avoiding significant harm and the minimum safeguards were only performed for sites within the EU, as in the reporting year only the costs incurred at sites in EU member states can be classified as sustainable and are directly related to taxonomy-aligned activities.

The combined results for the reviews performed can be found in the tables in section 7.6.

#### **7.5 Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned turnover**

As outlined, GRAMMER is pursuing ambitious sustainability goals with its activities. GRAMMER's main economic activities are the economic activities 3.18. Manufacture of automotive and mobility components and 3.19. Manufacture of rail rolling stock constituents. In this regard, the share of taxonomy-eligible turnover is 8.19 % and the share of taxonomy-aligned turnover is 1.87% (see table on p. 74).

#### **7.6 Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and OpEx**

CapEx according to the EU Taxonomy relates to additions to tangible and intangible assets during the financial year in relation to the economic activities. OpEx includes direct non-capitalized costs that relate to research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repair. Furthermore, OpEx comprises any other direct expenditures relating to the day-to-day servicing of assets of property, plant, and equipment by the undertaking or third party to whom activities are outsourced that are necessary to ensure the continued and effective functioning of such assets.

The share of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned CapEx and the share of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned OpEx were calculated in accordance with sections 1.1.2.2 and 1.1.3.2 of Annex 1 to the Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the Disclosure Obligation (2021/2178).

The share of Taxonomy-eligible CapEx was calculated as 17.17 % and the share of Taxonomy-aligned CapEx as 2.03 % (see tables on pp. 76-77).

The share of Taxonomy-eligible OpEx was calculated as 8.19 % and the share of Taxonomy-aligned OpEx as 0.68 % (see table on p. 80).

## Page 74

#### **Template: Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (1/2)**

|                                                                                                                            |                | Absolute turnover<br>(3)<br>EUR m |                                       | Substantial contribution criteria      |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           |                                                                                                                      | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                    | Code(s)<br>(2) |                                   | Proportion<br>of turnover<br>(4)<br>% | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Pollution<br>(8) | Circular<br>economy<br>(9)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(10) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                              | Climate change mitigation (11) Y/N            | Climate change adaptation (12) Y/N | Water and marine resources (13) Y/N | Pollution (14) Y/N | Circular economy (15) Y/N | Biodiversity and ecosystems (16) Y/N | Minimum safeguards (17) Y/N | Proportion of Taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) turnover, year N-1 (18) % | Category „enabling activity" (19) E | Category „transitional activity" (20) T |
|                                                                                                                            |                |                                   |                                       | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                             | (Y;N; N/EL)      |                                           | (Y;N; N/EL)                               | A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                      |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                            |                |                                   |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                        |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                           |                |                                   |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                                    | N/A                                           | Y                                  | Y                                   | Y                  | Y                         | Y                                    | Y                           | 0.00                                                                                | E                                   |                                         |
| Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                       | CCM 3.18       | 38.20                             | 1.66                                  | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                     | N/A                                           | Y                                  | Y                                   | Y                  | Y                         | Y                                    | Y                           | 0.00                                                                                | E                                   |                                         |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                           | CCM 3.19       | 4.92                              | 0.21                                  | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                      | Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                          |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                             |                | 43.12                             | 1.87                                  |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | Of which enabling                                                                                                    |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     | E                                   |                                         |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                          |                | 43.12                             |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | Of which transitional                                                                                                |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     | T                                       |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                      |                |                                   |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)               |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)               |                |                                   |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                         |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00                                                                                |                                     |                                         |
| Manufacture of other<br>low carbon technologies                                                                            | CCM 3.18       | 143.53                            | 6.23                                  | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                     |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00                                                                                |                                     |                                         |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                           | CCM 3.19       | 2.23                              | 0.10                                  | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                      | Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                | 145.76                            | 6.32                                  |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                    |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                          |                | 188.88                            | 8.19                                  |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           |                                                                                                                      |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                        |                |                                   |                                       |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           |                                                                                                                      |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible<br>activities (B)                                                                        |                | 2,116.01                          | 91.81                                 |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           |                                                                                                                      |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                                |                | 2,304.89                          | 100.00                                |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                                           |                                           |                                                                                                                      |                                               |                                    |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |                                                                                     |                                     |                                         |

## Page 75

#### **Template: Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (2/2)**

#### **Proportion of turnover/Total turnover**

|     | aligned per objective | eligible per objective |     | aligned per objective | eligible per objective |
|-----|-----------------------|------------------------|-----|-----------------------|------------------------|
| CCM | 1.87%                 | 8.19%                  | CE  | 0%                    | 0%                     |
| CCA | 0%                    | 0%                     | PPC | 0%                    | 0%                     |
| WTR | 0%                    | 0%                     | BIO | 0%                    | 0%                     |

#### **Proportion of turnover/Total turnover**

## Page 76

#### **Template: Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (1/2)**

| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                            | Code(s)<br>(2) | Absolute<br>CapEx<br>(3) | Proportion<br>of CapEx<br>(4) | Substantial contribution criteria                     |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                                                    |                | EUR m                    | %                             | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Pollution<br>(8)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Circular<br>economy<br>(9)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(10)<br>(Y;N; N/EL) |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                                                    |                |                          |                               |                                                       |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                                                   |                |                          |                               |                                                       |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |
| Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                                               | CCM 3.18       | 1.45                     | 1.50                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                                                   | CCM 3.19       | 0.18                     | 0.19                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| Installation, maintenance and<br>repair of charging stations for<br>electric vehicles in buildings                                                 | CCM 7.4        | 0.05                     | 0.05                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| Installation, maintenance and repair<br>of instruments and devices for measuring,<br>regulation and controlling energy<br>performance of buildings | CCM 7.5        | 0.21                     | 0.22                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>renewable energy technologies                                                                           | CCM 7.6        | 0.05                     | 0.05                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| Close to market research,<br>development and innovation                                                                                            | CCM 9.1        | 0.02                     | 0.02                          | Y                                                     | N/EL                                                  | N/EL                                                   | N/EL                            | N/EL                                      | N/EL                                                     |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                        |                | 1.97                     | 2.03                          |                                                       |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                                                  |                | 1.97                     |                               |                                                       |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                                              |                |                          |                               |                                                       |                                                       |                                                        |                                 |                                           |                                                          |

## Page 77

#### **Template: Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (1/2)**

|                                                                                                                         |                |                          | Substantial contribution criteria |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                                                    |                                                |                                                | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm")   |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                |                                                                                                                                           |                                    | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      | Proportion of Taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) CapEx, year N-1 (18) % |  | Category „enabling activity" (19) E | Category „transitional activity" (20) |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------|------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                 | Code(s)<br>(2) | Absolute<br>CapEx<br>(3) | Proportion<br>of CapEx<br>(4)     | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Pollution<br>(8) | Circular<br>economy<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(10) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                            | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11)<br>Y/N | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12)<br>Y/N | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13)<br>Y/N | Pollution<br>(14)<br>Y/N | Circular<br>economy<br>(15)<br>Y/N | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(16)<br>Y/N | Minimum<br>safeguards<br>(17)<br>Y/N | Proportion of<br>Taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or -eligible (A.2.)<br>CapEx, year N-1<br>(18)<br>% | Category<br>„enabling<br>activity“<br>(19)<br>E | Category<br>„transitional<br>activity“<br>(20) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                                                   | Climate change mitigation (11) Y/N | Climate change adaptation (12) Y/N            | Water and marine resources (13) Y/N | Pollution (14) Y/N | Circular economy (15) Y/N | Biodiversity and ecosystems (16) Y/N | Minimum safeguards (17) Y/N |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
|                                                                                                                         |                | EUR m                    | %                                 | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                             | (Y;N; N/EL)      | (Y;N; N/EL)                | (Y;N; N/EL)                               | A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                                                    |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                | A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                    |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)            |                |                          |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | A.1 Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                                                   |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                | Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                                                         |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                    | CCM 3.18       | 5.45                     | 5.61                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                                               |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                                          |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 1.07 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                        | CCM 3.19       | 0.09                     | 0.09                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                                                   |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | Installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles in buildings                                              |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.09 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Acquisition and ownership of buildings                                                                                  | CCM 7.7        | 5.76                     | 5.93                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Installation, maintenance and<br>repair of charging stations for<br>electric vehicles in buildings                                                 |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Installation, maintenance and<br>repair of energy efficiency equipment                                                  | CCM 7.3        | 0.22                     | 0.22                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>instruments and devices for measuring,<br>regulation and controlling energy<br>performance of buildings |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy technologies                                                                     |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 0.00 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Transport by motorbikes, passenger<br>cars and light commercial vehicles                                                | CCM 6.5        | 3.10                     | 3.19                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Installation, maintenance and repair of<br>renewable energy technologies                                                                           |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | Close to market research, development and innovation                                                                                      |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             | 1.16 |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Close to market research,<br>development and innovation                                                                 | CCM 9.1        | 0.09                     | 0.09                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Close to market research,<br>development and innovation                                                                                            |                                                | Y                                              | Y                                               | Y                        | Y                                  | Y                                                | Y                                    | 0.00                                                                                                | E                                               |                                                | CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)                         |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                | 14.70                    | 15.14                             |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | CapEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                        |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      | 0.00                                                                                                |                                                 |                                                | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                                         |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                       |                | 16.66                    | 17.17                             |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | Of which enabling                                                                                                                                  |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     | E                                               |                                                |                                                                                                                                           |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                     |                |                          |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | Of which transitional                                                                                                                              |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                |                                                                                                                                           |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                           |                | 80.41                    | 82.83                             |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                                                    |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                |                                                                                                                                           |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                             |                | 97.07                    | 100                               |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                                                    |                                                |                                                |                                                 |                          |                                    |                                                  |                                      |                                                                                                     |                                                 |                                                |                                                                                                                                           |                                    |                                               |                                     |                    |                           |                                      |                             |      |                                                                                  |  |                                     |                                       |

## Page 78

#### **Template: Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (2/2)**

## Page 79

#### **Template: Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (2/2)**

#### **Proportion of CapEx/Total CapEx**

#### **aligned per objective eligible per objective** CCM 2.03% 17.17% CCA 0% 0% WTR 0% 0% **Proportion of CapEx/Total CapEx aligned per objective eligible per objective** CE 0% 0% PPC 0% 0% BIO 0% 0%

## Page 80

#### **Template: Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (1/2)**

|                                                                                                                        |                |                             | Substantial contribution criteria |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                        |                                         | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities (1)                                                                                                | Code(s)<br>(2) | Absolute<br>turnover<br>(3) | Proportion<br>of turnover<br>(4)  | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(5) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(6) | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(7) | Pollution<br>(8) | Circular<br>economy<br>(9) | Biodiversity<br>and<br>ecosystems<br>(10) | Economic activities (1)                                                                                                | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>(11) | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>(12)       | Water and<br>marine<br>resources<br>(13) | Pollution<br>(14) | Circular<br>economy<br>(15) | Biodiversity<br>and ecosys-<br>tems (16) | Minimum<br>safeguards<br>(17) | Proportion of<br>Taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or -eligible (A.2.)<br>OpEx, year N-1<br>(18) | Category<br>"enabling<br>activity"<br>(19) | Category<br>"transitional<br>activity"<br>(20) |  |
|                                                                                                                        |                | EUR m                       | %                                 | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                            | (Y;N; N/EL)                             | (Y;N; N/EL)      | (Y;N; N/EL)                | (Y;N; N/EL)                               |                                                                                                                        | Y/N                                     | Y/N                                           | Y/N                                      | Y/N               | Y/N                         | Y/N                                      | Y/N                           | %                                                                                             | E                                          |                                                |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                        |                |                             |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                        |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| A.1 Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                       |                |                             |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | A.1 Environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                       |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                   | CCM 3.18       | 0.44                        | 0.60                              | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                   | N/A                                     | Y                                             | Y                                        | Y                 | Y                           | Y                                        | Y                             | 0.00                                                                                          | E                                          |                                                |  |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                       | CCM 3.19       | 0.06                        | 0.08                              | Y                                      | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                       | N/A                                     | Y                                             | Y                                        | Y                 | Y                           | Y                                        | Y                             | 0.00                                                                                          | E                                          |                                                |  |
| OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                             |                | 0.50                        | 0.68                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                             |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                      |                | 0.50                        |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | Of which enabling                                                                                                      |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               | E                                          |                                                |  |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                  |                |                             |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | Of which transitional                                                                                                  |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)           |                |                             |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities)           |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                   | CCM 3.18       | 5.35                        | 7.28                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components                                                                   |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               | 0.00                                                                                          |                                            |                                                |  |
| Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                       | CCM 3.19       | 0.17                        | 0.23                              | EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                                    | N/EL             | N/EL                       | N/EL                                      | Manufacture of rail constituents                                                                                       |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               | 0.00                                                                                          |                                            |                                                |  |
| OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                | 5.52                        | 7.51                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               | 0.19                                                                                          |                                            |                                                |  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                      |                | 6.02                        | 8.19                              |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           | Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                      |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                    |                |                             |                                   |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                        |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                           |                | 67.51                       | 91.81                             |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                        |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |
| Total (A+B)                                                                                                            |                | 73.53                       | 100.00                            |                                        |                                        |                                         |                  |                            |                                           |                                                                                                                        |                                         |                                               |                                          |                   |                             |                                          |                               |                                                                                               |                                            |                                                |  |

## Page 81

#### **Template: Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities – disclosure covering year 2023 (2/2)**

#### **Proportion of OpEx/Total OpEx**

|     | aligned per objective | eligible per objective |
|-----|-----------------------|------------------------|
| CCM | 0.68%                 | 8.19%                  |
| CCA | 0%                    | 0%                     |
| WTR | 0%                    | 0%                     |
|     | aligned per objective | eligible per objective |
| CE  | 0%                    | 0%                     |
| PPC | 0%                    | 0%                     |
| BIO | 0%                    | 0%                     |

#### **Proportion of OpEx/Total OpEx**

## Page 82

#### <span id="page-81-0"></span>**8. About this report**

#### **Basis of reporting**

This combined separate non-financial report (NFR) has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with sections 289c to 289e HGB for the 2023 financial year (January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023). It contains the disclosures required by law on material matters pertaining to the environment, employees, social concerns, observance of human rights and anti-corruption and anti-bribery precautions. In addition, it discloses material risks in accordance with section 289c(3) no. 3 and 4 HGB where these are necessary for an understanding of the Group's business performance, results of operations and position as well as the impact on non-financial aspects. The mandatory disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation 2020/852 are also included.

This report is the combined separate declaration for the GRAM-MER Group and GRAMMER AG for the 2023 financial year in accordance with sections 289b and 315b HGB, which is made available to the general public on the Company's website under Company > Sustainability & social responsibility > Separate non-financial report.

The content deadline for the 2023 NFR was March 13, 2024. This NFR is available in both German and English. The German version takes precedence in the event of any discrepancies.

Unless stated otherwise, the contents refer to the entire GRAM-MER Group including GRAMMER AG. In this report, the term GRAM-MER Group also includes GRAMMER AG. In addition to its financial key performance indicators, the GRAMMER Group has also defined strategic and environmental, social and governance (ESG) targets, such as compliance, environmental protection, economic stability and growth, as ongoing performance indicators. A more detailed explanation of the key non-financial performance indicators for GRAMMER AG can be found in the remuneration report. Detailed information on provisions can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Otherwise, there is no direct link between the amounts reported in the annual financial statements of the GRAMMER Group in accordance with section 289c (3) no. 6 HGB and the non-financial aspects. In some cases, reference is made to the content of the Group management report in accordance with section 315b (1) sentence 3 HGB.

The combined non-financial report has been prepared in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards.

#### **Forward-looking statements**

This non-financial report contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the future development of GRAMMER AG and its companies as well as economic and political developments. These statements are assessments made on the basis of all the information available to us at the time of reporting. If the underlying assumptions are inaccurate or other risks occur, actual results and the development and performance of GRAMMER AG can differ from the assessments shown. Even if GRAMMER AG's actual results, including its financial position and profitability as well as the economic and regulatory framework, are consistent with the forward-looking statements in this NFR, this does not guarantee that this will continue to be the case in the future. GRAMMER AG therefore accepts no liability for the forward-looking statements presented here.

#### **Review**

This NFR has been reviewed by the Supervisory Board, which has satisfied itself of its legality, propriety and suitability for its intended purpose.

#### **Rounding differences**

The use of rounded amounts and percentages can give rise to minor differences on account of commercial rounding.

## Page 83

### <span id="page-82-0"></span>Index Corporate Governance

|     | Corporate governance declaration                                                                                                              | 84 |
|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 1.  | Declaration of conformity with the<br>German Corporate Governance Code                                                                        | 84 |
| 2.  | Remuneration report/remuneration system                                                                                                       | 84 |
| 3.  | Information on corporate governance practices                                                                                                 | 84 |
| 4.  | Description of the working methods of the Executive<br>Board and Supervisory Board and composition and<br>working methods of their committees | 85 |
| 5.  | Targets                                                                                                                                       | 88 |
| 6.  | Diversity policy for the Executive Board<br>and long-term succession planning                                                                 | 88 |
| 7.  | Objectives for the composition, competence profile<br>and diversity policy for the Supervisory Board                                          | 89 |
| 8.  | Directors' dealings                                                                                                                           | 94 |
| 9.  | Annual General Meeting and shareholder<br>communication                                                                                       | 94 |
| 10. | Members of the Executive Board and<br>Executive Board member mandates                                                                         | 95 |
| 11. | Members of the Supervisory Board and<br>Supervisory Board member mandates                                                                     | 96 |

**GRAMMER** Annual Report 2023 **83**

| Report of the Supervisory Board                  |  | 98  |
|--------------------------------------------------|--|-----|
| Remuneration Report                              |  | 104 |
| 1. Review of the fiscal year 2023                |  | 104 |
| 2. Overview of the Remuneration system           |  |     |
| of the Executive Board                           |  | 104 |
| 3. Remuneration System for the Supervisory Board |  | 113 |
| 4. Comparative presentation of remuneration      |  |     |
| and earnings development                         |  | 115 |

## Page 84

## <span id="page-83-0"></span>CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

#### **GRAMMER AG – Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant to sections 289f and 315d HGB**

In this declaration, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board report on the Company's corporate governance in the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2023, in accordance with sections 289f, 315d HGB and as stipulated in principle 23 of the German Corporate Governance Code (the Code). Further information on corporate governance – such as the Company's Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board's Rules of Procedure and the corporate governance declarations from previous fi nancial years – are also available on the GRAMMER AG website at [https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-gov](https://www.grammer.com/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance)[ernance/](https://www.grammer.com/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance)

#### **1. Declaration of conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code**

The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of GRAMMER AG have approved the following declaration in accordance with section 161 AktG as of December 19, 2023:

"Declaration of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of GRAMMER Aktiengesellschaft on the recommendations of the "Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code" in accordance with section 161 AktG

Since issuing the last declaration of conformity on December 20, 2022, the Company has conformed to all recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated April 28, 2022, published in the official section of Bundesanzeiger on June 27, 2022, announced by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection in the official section of Bundesanzeiger and will continue to comply with these in the future

The current declaration of conformity and the declarations of conformity for the past five years can be viewed on GRAMMER AG's website at [https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/](https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/) [corporate-governance/](https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/)

#### **2. Remuneration report/remuneration system**

The remuneration report for the last financial year and the auditor's report in accordance with section 162 AktG, the remuneration system in place for members of the Executive Board in accordance with section 87a(1) and (2) sentence 1 AktG, which was approved by the Annual General Meeting on June 23, 2021, and the resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting on May 18, 2022, in accordance with section 113(3) AktG on remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board are available to the public at [https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-gov](https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/)[ernance/.](https://www.grammer.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/)

#### **3. Information on corporate governance practices** Suggestions of the Code

GRAMMER AG voluntarily complies with all suggestions set out in the Code.

#### GRAMMER Code of Conduct

Other corporate practices that go beyond the statutory requirements are included in the GRAMMER Code of Conduct, which is publicly available at [https://www.grammer.com/en/company/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/compliance/) [compliance/.](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/compliance/) The GRAMMER Code of Conduct outlines the ethical and legal framework within which the Company operates. It covers the fundamental principles and rules governing the conduct within the GRAMMER Group and in relation to external partners and the public.

Ursensollen, December 19, 2023 GRAMMER Aktiengesellschaft The Executive Board The Supervisory Board"

## Page 85

#### <span id="page-84-0"></span>Compliance management system

GRAMMER's corporate culture is essentially defined by the GRAMMER Code of Conduct. This is binding on all employees of the GRAMMER Group. It summarizes the main internal and external rules and principles and contains binding rules for, among other things, anti-corruption, fair competition, data protection, occupational health and safety, insider trading, export controls and health and environment. The GRAMMER Code of Conduct is publicly available at [https://www.grammer.com/en/company/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/compliance/) [compliance/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/compliance/) and is supplemented by detailed compliance guidelines, which are available in the languages relevant to GRAMMER on the intranet. The Executive Board as a whole is jointly responsible for compliance across different areas of responsibility. A compliance organization headed by a Chief Compliance Officer ensures that the compliance management system is refined on an ongoing basis and that managers and employees receive training and advice. If any employees or external parties suspect or become aware of any misconduct or breaches of the law or internal guidelines, they can report this (anonymously) using the multilingual electronic whistleblower system.

#### **4. Description of the working methods of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and composition and working methods of their committees**

GRAMMER AG is subject to German stock corporation law and therefore has a dual management system consisting of an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. Their roles and authority, as well as the requirements for their working methods and composition, are essentially based on the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the Articles of Association of GRAMMER AG and the Rules of Procedure. GRAMMER AG's Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board can be found online at [https://www.grammer.com/en/investor-relations/](https://www.grammer.com/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/) [corporate-governance/](https://www.grammer.com/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/)

#### The Executive Board

As a management body, the Executive Board is committed to furthering the Company's interests and to increasing its sustained enterprise value. The members of the Executive Board are jointly responsible for overall corporate governance and make decisions about key business policy and corporate strategy issues, as well as annual and multi-year planning.

The Executive Board is responsible for preparing the Company's quarterly statements and half-yearly financial report as well as the annual and consolidated financial statements and the management report for GRAMMER AG and the Group. It prepares the dependent company report and, together with the Supervisory Board, the remuneration report. The Executive Board is responsible for compliance with the law and internal policies and ensures these are implemented and observed throughout the Company. To meet these obligations, the Executive Board ensures that there is an appropriate and effective internal control and risk management system in place that is based on the Company's risk position, which also comprises a compliance management system based on the Company's risk position. Employees and third parties can anonymously report legal violations within the Company.

The Supervisory Board has issued Rules of Procedure for the Executive Board, which include the definition of various areas of responsibility and the rules for cooperation both within the Executive Board and between the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. In an allocation of responsibilities plan, the Supervisory Board sets out the members of the Executive Board responsible for the individual Executive Board areas. As the head of Human Resources, the HR Director is appointed in accordance with section 33 of the German Codetermination Act (MitbestG). Each member of the Executive Board manages his or her assigned area on their own responsibility; business of particular

significance is reserved for resolution by the Executive Board in its entirety. The Executive Board is assisted by the Executive Committee, which meets regularly. An Executive Committee comprises the members of the Executive Board and the heads of key core business areas and forms the Company's highest operating management body.

The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board work closely together in the Company's best interests. The Executive Board informs the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and extensively about all business matters of particular significance due to their financial impact or relevance to general corporate policy. In particular, these include matters relating to the strategy, business performance, the risk situation, risk management and compliance. The members of the Executive Board are subject to a comprehensive non-competition clause during their activities for GRAMMER AG. They undertake to act in the Company's best interests and may not pursue any personal interests when making decisions; in particular, they may not make use of any business opportunities arising for the Company for their own personal benefit. They may only engage in sideline activities, in particular, supervisory board mandates outside the GRAMMER Group, with the approval of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is also responsible for deciding on how the remuneration received for sideline activities is to be treated. Each member of the Executive Board has a duty to disclose to the Supervisory Board any conflicts of interest without delay and to inform the other Executive Board members of these.

Members of the Executive Board are initially appointed for a period of no more than three years. However, the Supervisory Board assesses each individual case on the basis of its own merits to determine the appropriate initial period of appointment.

## Page 86

The Executive Board of GRAMMER AG comprised the following members in the financial year:

| Jens Öhlenschläger                                                                                                                        | Responsibilities (until December 31, 2023):                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spokesman of the<br>Executive Board, mem-<br>ber of the Executive<br>Board since January 1,<br>2019, appointed until<br>December 31, 2026 | Strategy,<br>Sales & Project<br>Management,<br>ment, Quality      |
| Jurate Keblyte                                                                                                                            | Responsibilities (until December<br>31, 2023):                    |
| Member of the<br>Executive Board<br>since August 1, 2019,<br>Human Resources<br>Director, appointed                                       | Accounting,<br>Finance & Trea-<br>Relations, Hum-<br>& Compliance |

Responsibilities (as of December 31, 2023): Strategy & CSR, Operations, Sales & Projects, Supply Chain Management, Research & Development, Quality Management & HSE

Responsibilities (as of December 31, 2023): Accounting & Controlling, Finance & Treasury, Investor Relations, Human Resources, Legal & Compliance, IT, Risk Management

The résumés of the members of the Executive Board are available on the Company's website at [https://www.grammer.com/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/) [en/company/management-supervisory-board/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/). Further details on seats of Executive Board members to be disclosed under section 285 no. 10 HGB can be found in (10) of this declaration.

#### The Supervisory Board

GRAMMER AG's Supervisory Board has 12 members. In accordance with the German Codetermination Act, it comprises equal numbers of shareholder and employee representatives. The members of the Supervisory Board representing the shareholders are elected at the Annual General Meeting by a simple majority. Elections to the Supervisory Board are regularly held in the form of individual elections. The employee representatives on the Supervisory Board are elected in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act.

Further details on the members of the Supervisory Board and their seats to be disclosed under section 285 no. 10 HGB can be found in (11) of this declaration. Résumés for the Supervisory Board members are published at [https://www.grammer.com/en/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/) [company/management-supervisory-board/](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/) and updated each year.

The Supervisory Board monitors and advises the Executive Board on the management of the Company. At regular intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses the Company's business performance and planning as well as strategy and its implementation. It reviews the annual and consolidated financial statements, the management report of GRAMMER AG and the Group, including the non-financial statement, sustainability reporting and the dependent company report. It adopts the annual financial statements of GRAM-MER AG and approves the consolidated financial statements, based on the results of the preliminary review conducted by the Audit Committee and taking into account the external auditor's reports. The Supervisory Board passes a resolution concerning the Executive Board's proposal for the appropriation of the Company's net retained profits and the Supervisory Board's report to the Annual General Meeting and submits a proposal for the election of the external auditor at the Annual General Meeting. Together with the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board prepares a report on the remuneration paid and owed to members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in the previous year. The Supervisory Board or Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with legal provisions, official regulations and internal company policies. In particular, monitoring and advisory activities by the Supervisory Board also encompass sustainability issues.

The Supervisory Board is also responsible for appointing and dismissing the members of the Executive Board and determining the allocation of responsibilities. The Supervisory Board, acting on a proposal by the Personnel and Mediation Committee, decides on the system for the remuneration of the members of the Executive Board and sets the specific remuneration in accordance with this system. It defines the targets for variable remuneration and the respective total remuneration for the individual members of the Executive Board and reviews the appropriateness of the total remuneration as well as the remuneration system for the Executive Board on a regular basis.

Material decisions by the Executive Board – such as major acquisitions, divestment, investment in tangible assets and financial measures – require the Supervisory Board's approval. Preliminary meetings are usually held to prepare for the Supervisory Board meetings. The Supervisory Board also regularly meets without the presence of the Executive Board. Each member of the Supervisory Board is under a duty to disclose any conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board. Any conflicts of interest and the measures taken to address these are disclosed in the Supervisory Board report. The members of the Supervisory Board take their own initiative to undertake any training that may be required for their role and are supported here by the Company. Internal presentations are also given for the purpose of ongoing training. Details of its work can be found in the report of the Supervisory Board, which can be viewed for the last financial year at [https://www.grammer.com/en/company/manage](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/.)[ment-supervisory-board/.](https://www.grammer.com/en/company/management-supervisory-board/.)

#### Supervisory Board committees

The Supervisory Board had five committees in the reporting year. Their duties, responsibilities and work processes comply with the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the Code. The committee chairs regularly report to the Supervisory Board on their activities.

The Audit Committee focuses on monitoring the accounts and the accounting process. It is responsible for the preliminary review of the annual and consolidated financial statements and the management report of GRAMMER AG and the Group, including non-financial topics. Based on the auditor's report on the audit of the financial statements, after conducting its own preliminary review it makes proposals on the approval of the annual financial statements of GRAMMER AG and the consolidated financial statements by the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee is required to discuss the quarterly statements and half-yearly

## Page 87

financial report with the Executive Board. The Audit Committee also deals with sustainability reporting. In addition, the Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with legal provisions, official regulations and internal company policies. It also handles the Company's risk monitoring system and monitors the appropriateness and effectiveness of its internal control system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system. The Audit Committee prepares the Supervisory Board's proposal to the Annual General Meeting regarding the choice of auditor and issues a recommendation to the Supervisory Board accordingly. Following the resolution by the Annual General Meeting, the Audit Committee issues the audit engagement to the auditor and monitors the audit of the financial statements and the selection, independence, qualifications, rotation and efficiency of the auditor and the services provided by the auditor. It regularly assesses the quality of the audit. The Chair of the Audit Committee also maintains regular dialog with the auditor outside meetings. The Audit Committee regularly consults with the auditor without the presence of the Executive Board.

The Audit Committee's members in the reporting year were:

- Dagmar Rehm (Chairwoman)
- Dr. Martin Kleinschmitt
- Andrea Elsner
- Antje Wagner

Under the German Stock Corporation Act, at least one member of the Supervisory Board must be an expert in the area of accounting and at least one additional member of the Supervisory Board must be an expert in auditing. With Dagmar Rehm as Chairwoman, the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee have a member who is an expert in auditing and, with Dr. Martin Kleinschmitt, they both have a member with accounting expertise.

After studying economics, Ms. Dagmar Rehm spent many years in commercial executive positions and CFO roles. She has been Chairwoman of the Audit Committee at Koenig & Bauer AG for several years and so has particular knowledge and experience in auditing. She also has a sound understanding of the requirements of sustainability reporting. Ms. Rehm is also independent.

Dr. Martin Kleinschmitt trained as a banker and studied law before also working as a CFO for many years. He is a member of the Executive Board at Noerr Consulting AG, as part of which he advises companies on finance issues and takes responsibility for commercial management, and so he has particular knowledge and experience in the application of accounting principles and internal control and risk management systems.

The Personnel and Mediation Committee deliberates on the Supervisory Board's personnel decisions in an advisory and preparatory capacity, chiefly regarding the appointment and removal of Executive Board members (including concluding, amending, extending and terminating Executive Board contracts), the remuneration system for the Executive Board, total compensation for the individual members of the Executive Board and the preparation of the remuneration report. When making proposals for initial appointments, the committee takes into account the fact that the period of appointment should not generally exceed three years. When proposing potential members of the Executive Board, the committee considers their professional suitability, international experience and leadership qualities, the age limit set for Executive Board members, long-term succession planning and diversity. In addition, the Personnel and Mediation Committee consults regularly about long-term succession planning for the Board of Management. The Personnel and Mediation Committee decides on the approval of an Executive Board member's sideline activities and whether and to what extent any remuneration is to be taken into account.

The members of the Personnel and Mediation Committee in the reporting year were:

- Gabriele Sons (Chairwoman)
- Dr. Martin Kleinschmitt
- Udo Fechtner (since October 1, 2023)
- Martin Heiß
- Horst Ott (until September 30, 2023)

The main task of the Strategy Committee is to advise the Executive Board on the Company's ongoing strategic development in relation to the corporate strategy and projects of strategic relevance and to monitor their implementation.

The Strategy Committee's members in the reporting year were:

- Prof. Dr. Birgit Vogel-Heuser (Chairwoman)
- Dr. Martin Kleinschmitt
- Udo Fechtner (since October 1, 2023)
- Martin Heiß
- Horst Ott (until September 30, 2023)

The Nomination Committee has the task of proposing to the Supervisory Board suitable shareholder representatives for election to the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting. As well as the required knowledge, skills and professional experience, the objectives designated by the Supervisory Board for its composition and the competence profile drawn up for the entire Supervisory Board should be taken into account when proposing candidates. When determining its composition, the Supervisory Board should, in particular, suitably consider the Company's international activities, the age limit specified and diversity. Attention must be paid to ensuring appropriate representation of women and men in accordance with the statutory gender representation requirements and to ensuring that the members of the Supervisory Board as a whole are familiar with the sector in which the Company operates.
