## Page 11

adopted the Annual Financial Statements. Since SGL Carbon SE's 2023 fiscal year ended with an accumulated loss after the net income for the financial year was offset against the loss carried forward from the previous year, no proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of profit had to be reviewed.

At its meeting in March 2024, the Supervisory Board also scrutinized the Report of the Supervisory Board, the Corporate Governance Declaration and the Corporate Governance and Compliance Report, the Remuneration Report and the disclosures pursuant to Sections 289a and 315a HGB. We refer to the corresponding disclosures in the Annual Report. The Supervisory Board and the Board of Management compiled the Remuneration Report and reviewed the other reports for completeness. To the extent that the reports were within their scope of competence, they also determined the accuracy of their content.

KPMG issued an unqualified limited assurance audit opinion for the separate non-financial Group Report (CSR Report). This means that, based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence obtained, no items came to light that would lead to the conclusion that the separate non-financial Group Report is in all material aspects not in compliance with Sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB.

In addition, based on its own examination, the report of the Audit Committee regarding its preparatory assessment and the audit opinion of KPMG, the Supervisory Board did not identify any reason to take issue with the correctness and appropriateness of the separate non-financial Group Report.

#### **Meetings attended by**

In the year under review, Supervisory Board members attended the meetings of the Supervisory Board and of committees of which they are members as follows:

|                          | Plenary sessions of the SB (number of sessions / participation) | Committees of the SB (number of sessions / participation) | Summary (number of sessions / participation) |
|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Dr. h.c. Susanne Klatten | 1 / 1                                                           | 3 / 3                                                     | 4 / 4                                        |
| Georg Denoke             | 6 / 6                                                           | 4 / 4                                                     | 10 / 10                                      |
| Helmut Jodl              | 1 / 1                                                           | 2 / 2                                                     | 3 / 3                                        |
| Ana Cruz                 | 1 / 1                                                           | -                                                         | 1 / 1                                        |
| Edwin Eichler            | 6 / 6                                                           | 1 / 1                                                     | 7 / 7                                        |
| Ingeborg Neumann         | 6 / 6                                                           | 8 / 8                                                     | 14 / 14                                      |
| Prof. Dr. Frank Richter  | 5 / 5                                                           | 2 / 2                                                     | 7 / 7                                        |
| Kathrin Bamberger        | 5 / 5                                                           | -                                                         | 5 / 5                                        |
| Markus Stettberger       | 6 / 6                                                           | 5 / 5                                                     | 11 / 11                                      |
| Dieter Züllighofen       | 5 / 6                                                           | 3 / 3                                                     | 8 / 9                                        |
| Axel Hemleb              | 5 / 5                                                           | 2 / 2                                                     | 7 / 7                                        |

#### **Corporate Governance and Declaration of Conformity**

At its meeting on November 30, 2023, the Supervisory Board scrutinized corporate governance issues and approved the Declaration of Compliance pursuant to Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act [Aktiengesetz, AktG]. In accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code, the declaration of conformity has been made permanently available on the company's website and is reproduced in the Corporate Governance Declaration of this Annual Report. You will also find further information on the Company's corporate governance there.

#### **Personnel and functional changes in the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board**

There were no personnel changes in the company's Board of Management during the reporting period. Changes were made to the Supervisory Board. Dr. Klatten stepped down from the Supervisory Board on May 9, 2023, as did Mr. Jodl and Ms. Cruz. Prof. Dr. Frank Richter, Ms. Bamberger and Mr. Hemleb were newly elected to the Supervisory Board. At the constituent meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual General Meeting on May 9, 2023, Dr. Richter was elected Chairman of the Supervisory Board.

## Page 12

### **Thanks from the Supervisory Board**

The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Management, the employees and the employee representatives of all Group companies for their work, without which it would not have been possible to meet the challenges in the corporate development of SGL Carbon in the 2023 fiscal year.

Wiesbaden, Germany, March 21, 2024

The Supervisory Board

Hitta

Prof. Dr. Frank Richter Chairman of the Supervisory Board

## Page 13

# <span id="page-12-0"></span>CSR Report

#### **Sustainability at SGL Carbon – an overview**

SGL Carbon is a global technology company and expert in the production and processing of materials and products made from carbon-based solutions. As an energy-intensive company, employer in many countries and regions, and international partner, sustainable management and action is an integral part of our corporate strategy. That is why we present our sustainability ambitions and goals in the following chapters. We report on our developments in regard to ESG aspects that are material to us and our stakeholders. By publishing our targets, measures and key figures, we make our ambitions measurable and hold ourselves accountable.

#### Basics of the report

This CSR report constitutes the non-financial consolidated statement of SGL Carbon pursuant to Section 315b of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and complies with the content requirements as per Section 315c in conjunction with Section 289c-e HGB. Unless stated otherwise, the report covers the activities in the 2023 fiscal year of the entire SGL Carbon Group with the business units Graphite Solutions, Process Technology, Carbon Fibers and Composite Solutions. This year's report structure is based on the three ESG categories Environmental (including environmental and climate aspects), Social (including employee and social issues as well as respect for human rights) and Governance (including supply chain responsibility, compliance and combating corruption and bribery), which are also integrated into the mandatory reporting according to Section 315 c HGB. Furthermore, this report contains all information required by the EU Taxonomy Regulation ((EU) No. 2020/852).

In preparing the report, we have oriented ourselves to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Additional key performance indicators (KPIs) were developed to better reflect the specific requirements of SGL Carbon. The KPIs in use correspond to those of the previous year. We reviewed and updated the materiality analysis to determine the ESG aspects that are material for SGL Carbon in the 2023 fiscal year with the involvement of our stakeholders. The results are not only important for reporting, but also help us to better understand the requirements of our stakeholders and, if necessary, to derive strategically relevant topics for our corporate strategy. As part of the update in 2023, we checked whether new topics had arisen or whether the significance of topics had changed significantly since the last materiality analysis. We based this process on the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) (EU No. 2013/34/EU amended by (EU) 2022/2464). The business model is described in detail in the "Group fundamentals" of the Group Management Report.

The non-financial reporting of SGL Carbon uses the nomenclature of Environmental, Social and Governance and assigns the aspects to be presented in accordance with Section 289c(2) HGB to the three umbrella terms of Environmental, Social and Governance. When the Corporate Social Reporting Directive (CSRD) goes into effect, SGL Carbon will change the structure of the CSR report to the terms and definitions of the CSRD.

The updated materiality analysis from 2023 already takes into account the dual materiality required by regulation from 2024 and was reviewed and approved by the Executive Board, the highest decision-making body for ESG issues. The ESG topics resulting from this analysis (dual materiality) form the basis for the preparation of the material topics in accordance with Section 289c (3) HGB. The following overview shows the allocation of the primary ESG aspects according to the 2023 materiality analysis (in accordance with the CSRD) to the aforementioned umbrella terms Environmental, Social, and Governance. Individual ESG topics listed in the overview are grouped into chapters. For example, information on the management of hazardous substances can be found in the subchapter "Environmental concerns and waste management."

## Page 14

## **Environmental concerns = Environmental**

- Adaptation to climate change
- Climate protection measures incl. GHG emissions (CO<sup>2</sup> )
- Energy use and consumption
- Resource use and circular economy incl. waste

Image /page/13/Picture/6 description: The image shows a blue circle with two white figures inside. The figures appear to be stick figures, one male and one female, standing side by side with their arms raised in the air. The image likely represents a symbol for community, partnership, or celebration.

#### **Social concerns and Human Rights = Social**

- Working conditions including occupational health and safety
- Equal treatment and equal opportunities
- Employee retention / development incl. training and continuing education
- Other work-related rights incl. human rights

Image /page/13/Picture/12 description: The image shows a blue circle with a white building icon inside it, next to the word "Gov" in black text.

### **Governance**

- Compliance incl. protection of whistleblowers
- Corruption and bribery incl. political engagement
- Management of supplier relationships

In the previous year 2022, the CSR Report also included additional sub-topics that were no longer identified as material to our business model following the new double materiality analysis in 2023. To ensure continuity in reporting, we continue to report on the following topics voluntarily in this CSR Report: water management, product quality and safety, information security and corporate governance. We would also like to continue to emphasize the topic of social commitment. In the Group Management Report, we also provide information on the topics of sustainable product innovations (research and development section) and data protection (opportunities and risks report). We will not report further on the topics of sustainable financing and transparency and reporting. Corporate ethics and the ethical behavior of companies play an important role in almost all ESG topics.

Review of the content of the separate non-financial Group report was performed by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as part of an external limited assurance engagement.

#### Our ESG ambitions, strategy and goals

Our mission is to positively shape the future by developing cutting-edge carbon-based products - for all industries and areas of life. With its sophisticated and in some case customized solutions, SGL Carbon serves many industries that are shaping future trends: mobility (especially electromobility), semiconductor technology, LED, solar and wind energy, as well as the battery industry and manufacturers of fuel cells. Our aspirations include growing the company with products and technologies that benefit society and reduce our impact on the environment.

We strive to offer products that contribute to greater sustainability, but we also want to ensure that our manufacturing and management processes and our supply chains meet ambitious environmental, social and corporate governance standards.

For more than 10 years, SGL Carbon has reported on its own sustainability efforts by a separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report (CSR Report) and measures, among other things, its own energy and water consumption, waste volumes and provides information on occupational safety, employee concerns and compliance issues. We regularly reviewed and revised our sustainability strategy (also known as our ESG strategy). We monitor our progress and the set targets and adjust these when we reach them in order to continuously improve. Our work in the 2023 fiscal year focused on the implementation and further development of our ESG activities and goals as well as preparing for the implementation of the new Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). In addition to complying with all legal requirements, we want to make even more strategic use of opportunities and positive sustainability effects of our activities as well as further reduce negative impacts. In doing so, we also consider our support for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (more on this in the section "Our contribution to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals").

## Page 15

The following tables show our ESG targets and the current status of target achievement.

| Target<br>Year 2023                                                                                               | Achievement         | New or updated target<br>Year 2024                                                                                                    | KPI / explanation |                                                 | Highlights<br>2023                                                                                                                         | Support<br>SDGs¹                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                                                     |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 |                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                  |
| 50% reduction CO2 emissions (scope 1 & 2) by<br>2025 (base year 2019)                                             |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               | 295 kt            | 326 kt                                          | 10% CO₂-Reduction Scope 1 and 2<br><br>Installation Biomass system in Lavradio site<br>(Portugal) - reduction potential CO₂ approx. 40 kt  | Affordable, clean Energy /<br>Climate Action<br>                                                 |
| Climate neutral (scope 1 & 2) by 2038                                                                             |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               | 295 kt            | 326 kt                                          | Increase share of renewable energies e.g.<br>electricity from renewables, biomass system                                                   |                                                                                                  |
| Development of measures for Scope 3<br>reduction together with relevant suppliers                                 |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               | 367 kt            | 399 kt                                          | Calculation of Scope 3 upstream emissions                                                                                                  |                                                                                                  |
| Energy intensity reduction by 1% p.a.; 10%<br>until 2027 (base year 2017)                                         |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               | -7%               | -4%                                             | ISO 50001 re-certification of material sites                                                                                               |                                                                                                  |
| Target<br>Year 2023                                                                                               | Achievement         | New or updated target<br>Year 2024                                                                                                    | KPI / explanation |                                                 | Highlights<br>2023                                                                                                                         | Support<br>SDGs                                                                                  |
| SOCIAL                                                                                                            |                     |                                                                                                                                       | 2023              | 2022                                            |                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                  |
| Lost-time injury frequency rate annual<br>reduction of 5% by 2026 (based on 2022<br>target)                       | Image: green circle | ongoing                                                                                                                               | 1.6               | 2.3                                             | Reduction of LTI FR from 2.3 to 1.6 compared<br>with the previous year                                                                     | Decent Work and Economic<br>Growth<br>Image: SDG goal 8                                          |
|                                                                                                                   |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 | Continuation of the annual Safety Day to<br>further increase safety awareness                                                              |                                                                                                  |
| Maintain women's quota of 20% in senior<br>management                                                             | Image: green circle | Maintain women's quota of 20%<br>in senior management                                                                                 | 22%               | 20%                                             | Target of 20% women's quota achieved                                                                                                       | Gender Equality<br>Image: SDG goal 5                                                             |
| Improvement of the SGL Performance Culture<br>Index                                                               | Image: white circle | Improve SGL Performance<br>Culture Index to target range<br>"good"                                                                    | not satisfactory  | not satisfactory                                | Semi-annual employee survey on value-based<br>performance culture and employee<br>engagement. Improvement of the index                     | Quality Education / Decent<br>Work and Economic Growth<br>Image: SDG goal 4<br>Image: SDG goal 8 |
|                                                                                                                   |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 | Implementation of various initiatives<br>worldwide to strengthen SGL Carbon's<br>company values                                            |                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                   |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 | Approval of the new leadership development<br>program "Leadership4Performance" to start in<br>January<br>2024                              |                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                   |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 | Development of SGL's new Purpose Statement<br>& Slogan                                                                                     |                                                                                                  |
| Training of all production employees<br>worldwide on Code of Conduct and Human<br>Rights Policy until end of 2024 | Image: white circle | ongoing                                                                                                                               | 17% trained       | 100% training of<br>admin. workers<br>worldwide | Start online training for production employees<br>on Code of Conduct and Human Rights after<br>creation of digital access for target group | Image: SDG goal 5<br>Image: SDG goal 8<br>Image: SDG goal 16                                     |
|                                                                                                                   |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 | Appointment Human Rights Officer                                                                                                           |                                                                                                  |
| Target                                                                                                            | Achievement         | New or updated target                                                                                                                 | KPI / explanation |                                                 | Highlights                                                                                                                                 | Support                                                                                          |
| Year 2023                                                                                                         |                     | Year 2023                                                                                                                             | 2023              | 2022                                            | 2023                                                                                                                                       | SDGs                                                                                             |
| GOVERNANCE                                                                                                        |                     |                                                                                                                                       |                   |                                                 |                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                  |
| Maintaining a Business Partner Code of<br>Conduct signing rate of 100%                                            |                     | Maintaining a Business Partner<br>Code of Conduct signing rate of<br>100%                                                             | 100%              | 100%                                            | Update Business Partner Code of Conduct                                                                                                    |                                                                                                  |
| Continuation of supplier screening on ESG<br>issues and immediate remediation based on<br>risk assessment         |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               |                   |                                                 | Around 12% increase in number of suppliers<br>surveyed via standardized online ESG-<br>questionnaire                                       |                                                                                                  |
| No tolerance of compliance violations,<br>supported by investigation and sanctioning                              |                     | ongoing                                                                                                                               |                   |                                                 | Investigation of all reported potential<br>violations. No confirmed violations of fraud,<br>bribery and corruption                         | Decent Work and Economic<br>Growth<br>                                                           |
| Maintain ISO 37301 certification                                                                                  |                     | Re-certification Compliance<br>Management System (CMS) in<br>accordance with ISO 37301 incl.<br>anti-corruption and bribery<br>system | ISO Certification | ISO Certification                               | Expansion of the CMS ISO certification with<br>additional certification of the anti-corruption<br>and bribery system                       | Peace, Justice, Strong<br>Institutions<br>                                                       |

1 SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy | SDG 13 Climate Action

longer duration, target ongoing target achieved target not achieved or at risk

target achieved

get not achieved or at risk

## Page 16

longer duration, target ongoing target achieved target not achieved or at risk

target achieve

target not achieved or at risk

## Page 17

#### ESG Governance structure

To track and further develop our ESG goals and ambitions, we implemented a ESG governance structure for the Group in the 2022 fiscal year. The highest operational decision-making body of SGL Carbon is the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE. Due to its strategic importance, we have made the topic of sustainability the responsibility of the highest operational decision-making level. The Board of Management is supported in this area by an ESG Sounding Board made up of the heads of our four business units and various experts in ESG-relevant areas.

## Page 18

#### **ESG Governance structure:**

Image /page/17/Figure/2 description: The image shows an organizational chart related to ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) structure. At the top is the "ESG Steering Committee" with "Board of Management" underneath. To the left of this is the "ESG Sounding Board", and to the right is "ESG Controlling & Reporting". Below the ESG Steering Committee are three modules: "Module Environmental", "Module Social", and "Module Governance". Under "Module Environmental" are the workstreams: "Green energy", "GHG emissions scope 1&2", "GHG emissions scope 3", "Energy management", "Water management", "Waste management", and "Circular economy". Under "Module Social" are the workstreams: "Occupational safety", "Organizational & leadership culture", "Employee concerns & development", "Diversity & equal opportunity", and "Human rights". Under "Module Governance" are the workstreams: "Compliance", "Responsibility in the supply chain", "Corporate governance", "Data protection", and "Information security". The words "Workstreams" are written vertically to the left of each module.

Sustainable products

Also part of the ESG Steering Committee is the ESG Coordination Team, which consists of those responsible for the three ESG modules. We expanded the supporting "ESG Reporting and Controlling" working group in 2023 to include colleagues from Group Accounting and

IT to meet the new requirements of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) in the future. On the operational level, ESG measures and goals are driven by the three ESG working groups (Environmental, Social and Governance modules). Workstreams for all relevant ESG topics with clear responsibilities have been defined below the three ESG working groups. Furthermore, dedicated individuals responsible for ESG have been appointed in all four business units to carry ESG ambitions through to the operating units. These experts work closely with colleagues from Environment, Health & Safety Affairs

## Page 25

climate protection and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goal "Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts." SGL Carbon also participates in the program for reporting data relevant to climate protection of the international organization CDP and improved its rating from "C" to "B" in 2023. This clearly demonstrates our measurable success in reducing our CO2 footprint.

SGL Carbon's CO2 emissions are Scope 1 emissions resulting from combustion processes and Scope 2 emissions attributable to power and steam consumption. In 2021, SGL Carbon had already set itself the goal of cutting total emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) in half by 2025 compared to the emissions of reference year 2019. We want to reduce our emissions by 100% and become climate neutral by 2038. We remain committed to these goals.

The following figure shows SGL Carbon's CO2 reduction targets expressed in kt CO2e (Scope 1 and Scope 2):

Image /page/24/Figure/4 description: The image is a bar graph showing a reduction in emissions over time. In 2019, the emissions are at ~400. By 2025, the emissions are reduced by -50% to ~200 through sourcing of green electricity and improvement of energy efficiency. By 2038, the emissions are reduced by -100% to 0 through conversion of gas-powered processes to hydrogen, biogas and/or electricity and compensation.

Our CO2 targets are to be achieved through specific actions. For several years now, electricity has been obtained from renewable sources at the Wackersdorf, Ort and Ried sites. Both Polish sites also covered 100% of their electricity requirements from green electricity in 2022. We have also been using renewable electricity at our Italian site in Verdello since 2023. In total, we purchased more than 29 GWh of clean energy worldwide in 2023. In addition to commissioning a photovoltaic system in Ort in the Innkreis (Austria) in 2021, a photovoltaic system was also installed on the roof of the production building in Ried, our second production site in Innkreis (Austria), in 2022. The new 530 kWp plant was commissioned in 2023 and saved approximately 20 tons of CO2 in 2023. Over 95% of the power produced is also consumed on site. This means that we saved a total of 60 tons of CO2 in 2023 through the use of solar energy at our two sites in Austria alone. The photovoltaic systems in Bonn, Ort and Ried, generated a total of around 630 MWh of green electricity in the reporting period.

By 2025, SGL Carbon plans to cover its global power requirements from renewable sources to the greatest possible extent. In addition to installing more systems for supplying power internally on site, such as photovoltaic systems, we also rely on the conclusion of long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs), in which the power supplied to the sites is guaranteed to be from renewable energy sources. Due to the upheaval on the energy markets as a result of the war in Ukraine, procuring green electricity proved to be extremely challenging in the 2022 and 2023 fiscal years. At our Muir of Ord (Scotland) site, for example, we had to suspend the procurement of CO2 certificates.

To achieve greenhouse gas reductions after 2025, SGL Carbon plans to use electricity to operate high-temperature processes that were previously gas-fired or to switch to the use of hydrogen and biogas. We expect that roughly one-third of emissions will be unavoidable in 2025 and will therefore need to be offset. In addition, increasing energy efficiency remains a key issue [see energy consumption section].

SGL Carbon strives to reduce not only the CO2 emissions over which we have direct influence but also the emissions coming from the upstream and downstream value chain. In 2022, we analyzed our upstream Scope 3 emissions in detail for the first time. To this end, we evaluated our purchasing data in the "Estell" input/output model. This is a well-established statistical process that reports emissions both at the direct supplier level and in their upstream value chain. We evaluated the following Scope 3 categories: 1. Purchased goods and services, 2. capital goods, 3. fuel and energy-related emissions (not included in

## Page 26

Scope 1 or 2), 4. transportation and distribution (upstream), 5. waste, 6. business travel. We continued to determine our Scope 3 emissions for the 2023 fiscal year: Overall, Scope 3 emissions in the aforementioned categories amounted to 367 kt (2022: 399 kt) and were therefore reduced by 8% compared to 2022.

We have set ourselves the goal of obtaining the climate targets of our top 100 suppliers and working with these suppliers to develop potential for reducing the CO2 emissions of their materials and to start implementing them by the end of 2024.

In the 2023 fiscal year, SGL Carbon's Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions totaled 295 thousand metric tons (2022: 326 thousand metric tons). The decline is partly due to our reduction measures but also to lower production volumes in the Carbon Fibers business unit. If CO<sup>2</sup> emissions are compared with economic output, they decreased from 0.29 kt per €1.0 million in sales to 0.27 in 2023.

If CO2 emissions are compared to adjusted sales (excluding price, currency and other special effects), they have decreased from 0.31 kt per €1.0 million in 2022 to 0.27 kt in 2023. This key figure is reported exclusively due to disclosure requirements in financing instruments.

| CO2-emissions 1) 2)                          | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|----------------------------------------------|------|------|--------|
| in thousands of tons (kt)                    | 295  | 326  | -10%   |
| thereof direct                               | 79   | 86   | -8%    |
| thereof indirect                             | 216  | 240  | -10%   |
| CO2 emissions in relation to economic output |      |      |        |
| (kt per       €1.0m sales revenue)           | 0.27 | 0.29 | -7%    |

1) Data include all fully consolidated subsidiaries

2) The calculation of CO2 emissions is based on the "UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting" of the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, Gov. UK, for direct emissions (Scope 1) and steam (Scope 2) as well as on "EMISSION FACTORS 2023" of the International Energy Agency (IEA) for indirect emissions (Scope 2)

In a regional comparison, around 96% of direct emissions and 90% of indirect emissions occurred in Europe and North America in 2023. The direct and indirect emissions of our plants in Asia (China and Japan) were comparatively low at 4% and 10% respectively. This distribution reflects the regional production mix as well as the regional production volumes.

| Direct CO2 emissions by regions | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|---------------------------------|------|------|--------|
| in thousands of tons (kt)       | 79.1 | 85.7 | -8%    |
| Europe                          | 44.4 | 47.0 | -6%    |
| North America                   | 31.7 | 36.1 | -12%   |
| Asia                            | 3.0  | 2.6  | 15%    |

| Indirect CO2 emissions by regions | 2023  | 2022  | Change |
|-----------------------------------|-------|-------|--------|
| in thousands of tons (kt)         | 215.7 | 240.1 | –10%   |
| Europe                            | 100.6 | 109.9 | –8%    |
| North America                     | 94.2  | 111.2 | –15%   |
| Asia                              | 20.9  | 19.0  | 10%    |

#### Waste and water management

SGL Carbon's business activities generate various residual materials according to the stages of the value chain. For environmental and economic reasons, residual materials that result from production processes are largely recycled. Water is used for purposes that include cooling production plants, producing steam and forming isostatic graphite (pressing processes). Waste from the production of graphite blocks is ground and then reintroduced into the production process. Residual carbon fibers are used for the production of injectionmolded parts, among other things.

At all its sites worldwide, SGL Carbon undertakes to comply with all applicable legal requirements and to maintain effective management processes as well as to continuously improve performance in resource management. The ultimate objective is to make efficient use of resources and place as little burden as possible on the environment. Water withdrawal and waste volume are to be continuously reduced in this way. The principle in the context of waste is: Prevention before recycling before disposal.

Water is required at SGL Carbon sites primarily for sanitary and social purposes, cooling and for industrial applications. As the shortage of global water resources is steadily progressing and to be able to respond to possible water shortages in some regions, the topic of "reducing water withdrawal" will be a key issue in the coming years. Reducing

## Page 27

water withdrawal also makes sense for economic reasons. Currently, 8 out of 29 SGL sites are located in regions with very high water scarcity (source: Water Risk Atlas, www.wri.org). To conserve water as a resource, SGL Carbon relies on secondary loops and recooling systems where they make economic sense. Water that is not used directly for the production process is not contaminated and can therefore be discharged back into rivers after use in some cases.

SGL Carbon codified its approach to resources in its EHSA training policy. The Business Partner Code of Conduct for our business partners also contains information on the topic of waste. It requires SGL Carbon and its suppliers to obtain necessary permits, recycle and avoid waste and the release of hazardous substances into the environment. Once a month, the central corporate EHSA unit collects data on resource use and waste generation in cooperation with local EHS managers at all sites. The water withdrawal is specified for each water source and by region. When it comes to waste, a distinction is made between hazardous and non-hazardous types and according to regional generation. Hazardous waste management is required by the operating permit for SGL Carbon production sites. Hazardous waste is treated in disposal facilities approved only for this purpose.

In fiscal year 2023, SGL Carbon's water withdrawal was reduced by around -1% to 5.41 million cubic meters in the 2023 fiscal year. Water withdrawal increased slightly in relation to economic output from 4.8 cubic meters per €1,000 of sales revenue in 2022 to 5.0 in the reporting year. In absolute terms, the amount of waste increased from 24.8 thousand tons to 26.5 thousand tons. In relation to sales revenue, the waste volume also increased by around 11% compared to the previous year to 24.3 metric tons per €1.0 million in sales revenue.

| Water withdrawal 1)                                                                 | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|------|--------|
| Total (millions m3)                                                                 | 5.41 | 5.44 | -1%    |
| thereof from Company wells                                                          | 3.31 | 3.40 | -3%    |
| thereof from rivers                                                                 | 0.59 | 0.58 | 2%     |
| thereof from public water supply                                                    | 1.51 | 1.46 | 3%     |
| Water withdrawal in relation to economic output<br>(m3 per €1,000 in sales revenue) | 5.0  | 4.8  | 4%     |

|                                                                              | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|------|--------|
| in thousands of tons (kt)                                                    | 26.5 | 24.8 | 7%     |
| thereof hazardous waste                                                      | 3.4  | 3.6  | -6%    |
| Waste volume in relation to economic output<br>(kt per € 1.0m sales revenue) | 24.3 | 21.8 | 11%    |

1) Data include all fully consolidated subsidiaries

In a regional comparison, around 99% of water withdrawal and 97% of waste volumes were generated in Europe and North America in the reporting year. This reflects the production processes and volumes in the regions.

| Water withdrawal by regions | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|-----------------------------|------|------|--------|
| Total (millions m3)         | 5.41 | 5.44 | −1%    |
| Europe                      | 4.12 | 4.25 | −3%    |
| North America               | 1.22 | 1.12 | 9%     |
| Asia                        | 0.07 | 0.07 | 0%     |

| Waste volume by regions | 2023 | 2022 | Change |
|-------------------------|------|------|--------|
| Total (kt)              | 26.5 | 24.8 | 7%     |
| Europe                  | 13.6 | 13.1 | 4%     |
| North America           | 12.1 | 11.3 | 7%     |
| Asia                    | 0.8  | 0.4  | 100%   |

#### Circular economy

In a circular economy, existing materials and products are reused, refurbished, repaired and recycled to extend their life cycle for as long as possible. The goal is to reduce resource use and waste to a minimum. The transition to a circular economy is both a societal obligation and one of the six environmental objectives of the EU taxonomy. This has led to a rise in the interest of our customers and business partners in approaches and solutions developed by SGL Carbon.

## Page 28

Development and operational implementation to improve the recyclability of our products is performed in the four SGL Carbon business units, which also share ideas, concepts and experiences. Three principal approaches are being pursued in this context: using recycled raw materials, improving material properties and lifecycle optimization, and developing new business models.

The Graphite Solutions (GS) business unit is implementing several projects related to the circular economy. For example, cutting scrap from "green" production of graphite blocks is fed into the original production process. A development project of novel recycling concepts is included in the funding decision received in March 2021 for the development and industrialization of innovative anode materials made of synthetic graphite for use in lithiumion batteries in the context of the second European IPCEI program (Important Project of Common European Interest)/EUBatIn (European Battery Innovation). The EU-funded ICARUS project is pursuing the closure of material loops in the production of silicon wafers for the solar industry. As part of ICARUS, SGL Carbon is working on ways to reuse recycled graphite from solar silicon processing in synthetic graphite applications while also working on recycling silicon. In addition, the business unit is looking at alternative carbon raw materials from renewable and recycled sources and evaluating their use in carbon materials.

The Carbon Fibers (CF) business unit is involved in the "Green Carbon" project sponsored by the Technical University of Munich, in which "green" acrylonitrile is to be obtained from algae and used to make a carbon fiber precursor. In the project, SGL Carbon is evaluating the properties of biologically based acrylonitrile, the manufactured precursor and the suitability of the precursor in volume production of carbon fibers. Project participants expect to produce a "green carbon fiber" by the middle to end of the decade. SGL Carbon produced precursors and carbon fibers from bio-based acrylonitrile for the first time in 2022. The carbon fiber produced in this way has comparable properties to a fiber obtained by means of the conventional petrochemical manufacturing route.

Since carbon fiber materials can serve as valuable raw materials both as residual substances and as recycled materials, the development of recycling processes for this still young class of materials is being accelerated by Composites United e.V., among others, and coordinated with authorities and waste associations. For SGL Carbon, recycling is a cornerstone of its innovation portfolio, and we support association projects with materials expertise and research services.

The Process Technology (PT) business unit already takes into consideration the various life cycle issues and offers its customers appropriate service packages (including installation and commissioning services, inspection services and remote services). The product design is based on reliability, durability and opportunities for repairs and upgrades, including capacity expansions. An end-of-life (EoL) strategy is just as much a part of the product life cycle as customer support during the commissioning and operating phase of our equipment and plants. With end-of-life service, we offer our customers custom solutions tailored to specific requirements to improve the recyclability of plants. This can include refurbishment of the plant or further use of individual components.

The Composite Solutions (CS) business unit continued to promote its development efforts in the area of sustainable fiber composites with a reduced CO2 footprint and easier recyclability in 2023. A three-year research project was launched with various industry and research partners with the aim of developing a battery housing that can be manufactured in a particularly resource-efficient way and can be recycled more easily. The intensive collaboration with various companies from the recycling industry for reprocessing fiber composite components, which began in the previous year, was continued and expanded to include new approaches. In the process, carbon and glass fibers are recovered for further use as reinforcement for injection-molded components or molding compounds. In a research project, methods are being developed to recover and reuse components of matrix resin in the future. Composite Solutions uses nonwoven materials made from recycled carbon fibers as structural reinforcement and as electromagnetic shielding layers in fiberglass components.

In the Corporate business unit (Logistics), polystyrene linings for specific cardboard packaging were replaced with recycled cardboard bags. This makes a sustainable contribution to reducing the amount of packaging material containing plastic.

# Products

Tailor-made materials and products manufactured from special graphite, carbon fibers, and composites form the foundation of our business model and ensure the satisfaction of our customers. Quality and the development and supply of sustainable products and innovations are the basis of the economic success of SGL Carbon, both now and over the long term.

## Page 29

### **Product quality**

We ensure the quality of our products and services by consistently applying global and local quality indicators, ongoing internal quality management, and regular customer feedback. Implementing advanced technologies to detect defects early on and monitoring quality underlines our commitment to excellence.

The operating business units continued their internal quality management and related reporting in 2023. The GS and PT business units use a comparable system. Monthly quality key performance indicators are collected for each site and summarized to business unit values. The development of the key figures is regularly discussed with business unit management. In addition, quality management also reports on possible improvements and progress relating to complaints processing.

The GS business unit conducted another global customer satisfaction survey in 2023. Overall, good participation was achieved and customer feedback was similarly positive as in the previous year. The PT business unit launched a customer survey in the fourth quarter of 2023. Initial feedback has been analyzed and indicates positive customer feedback.

The CF business unit installed camera-based systems for early defect detection and quality monitoring at several production sites. This not only ensures the quality of the products but also helps prevent accidents.

#### **Global Operations Improvement (GOI) Team**

To continuously improve process and organizational quality, an Operations Management System (OMS) tailored to SGL Carbon began in 2017. This SGL-specific production system pursues standardization of processes, standardization of systems within the organization, and development of a common understanding across all production sites. The OMS is managed by our Global Operations Improvement (GOI) team. In 2022, these activities were integrated into the global Process, Technology, Safety and Environmental (PTSE) organization. This team reports directly to the CEO and works on efficiency improvement and quality and occupational safety initiatives at the manufacturing sites of all four business units in focused project assignments ("sprints"). Lean manufacturing approaches were consistently applied, resulting in substantial reductions in throughput times and scrap rates as well as increases in productivity and plant availability. Within the scope of the project assignments, workplaces were evaluated with regard to occupational safety and appropriate improvement measures implemented, where necessary.

#### **ISO certifications**

Nearly all SGL Carbon sites are already integrated into the global quality management system and certified according to the ISO 9001 quality management standard. Depending on the specific requirements, certifications to the environmental management standard ISO 14001, the occupational health and safety management standard ISO 45001, the energy management standard ISO 50001, and the quality management standards EN/AS 9100 (for aviation) and IATF 16949 (for the automotive industry) are available.

The following certifications were renewed in 2023: quality management pursuant to IATF 16949:2016 at the Ort and Ried sites in Austria; energy management pursuant to ISO 50001:2018 in Wiesbaden, Bonn, Chedde, Lavradio, Meitingen, Muir of Ord, and in Poland (Nowy Sacz, Raciborz).

The anti-bribery management system pursuant to ISO 37001:2016 and the compliance management system pursuant to ISO 37301:2021 were introduced Group-wide.

#### **Sustainable products and reporting on the EU taxonomy**

Customers and other stakeholders increasingly expect value chains to be aligned with sustainability criteria. SGL Carbon is therefore committed to knowing the environmental and climate impacts of its products while they are being manufactured and during their service lives. The company is also committed to continuously identifying options for optimizing the effects they have on the environment and climate. We strive to grow with products and technologies that support the trends of the future and reduce the impact on the environment.

In many target markets, the reduction of environmental and climate impacts are a material decision-making criterion in the use and consumption of such products. Many of SGL Carbon's materials and products are already in use in industries that make a crucial contribution to protection of the environment and climate. This includes the use of SGL composites in wind turbines for the generation of renewable energy or the increasing use of battery and fuel cell solutions in climate-friendly energy and mobility concepts. Many

## Page 30

SGL products have the potential to foster the development of low-carbon technologies, such as through increased use in photovoltaics, LED lighting, and lightweight construction, or through increasing heating and energy efficiency. In the mobility sector, SGL Carbon's lightweight composite solutions help reduce energy requirements in the automotive and aviation industries, thus contributing to an overall reduction in CO2 emissions.

#### **EU taxonomy**

In December 2019, the European Commission presented the "European Green Deal", which includes the goal of making the European Union climate neutral by reducing net greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union to zero by 2050. Achieving this goal will require action such as redirecting private and public capital into environmentally sustainable activities. This required the development of the EU Taxonomy Regulation (EU 2020/852 or "EU taxonomy"), a classification system for defining environmentally sustainable economic activities.

For the 2021 fiscal year, companies that publish a non-financial report were for the first time required to provide information on taxonomy-eligible sales revenue shares, capital expenditure (capital expenditure, capex), and operating expenses (opex) in accordance with the EU taxonomy. SGL Carbon has been covered under this obligation since 2021, and it published this information for its taxonomy-eligible economic activities in 2021 in relation to the two published environmental objectives of climate change mitigation and climate change adaption. The key figures have not yet been assessed in terms of their environmental sustainability for fiscal year 2021, as required by the EU taxonomy.

Starting in fiscal year 2022, legal requirements expanded reporting to include taxonomyaligned economic activities. SGL Carbon was subject to this obligation. The necessary analyses were adjusted accordingly. New EU publications from 2023 were considered (see below for details).

In 2023, the obligation to assess the taxonomy eligibility of the environmental goals 3 to 6: sustainable use and protection of water resources, transition to a circular economy, prevention of pollution, and protection of ecosystems and biodiversity will apply for the first time. An assessment of taxonomy suitability is not planned for these environmental targets until 2024 and was therefore not performed by SGL Carbon. Regulations (EU) 2023/2485 and (EU) 2023/2486, which were not adopted until November 2023, were included in the assessment.

For fiscal year 2023, SGL Carbon could only identify the following economic activities and products as taxonomy-eligible in connection with the environmental goal of climate protection: manufacture of renewable energy technologies (SGL products: carbon fibers for use in the wind industry, specialty graphite products for the wind industry), manufacture of batteries (SGL products: graphite anode material for lithium ion batteries) and composite battery boxes for electric vehicles, manufacturing of automotive and mobility components.

No taxonomy-eligible products were identified under the environmental goals of adaptation to climate change, sustainable use and protection of water resources, transition to a circular economy, prevention of pollution, and protection of ecosystems and biodiversity.

#### **Determination of the taxonomy key figures**

Reporting on the nature of taxonomy-eligible as well as taxonomy-aligned economic activities is carried out in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation (EU) 2020/852. The key figures to be reported are the shares of taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned sales revenue, investments, and operating expenses. SGL Carbon uses the reporting forms provided for in Annex II of Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 for this purpose.

The data collection is based on consolidated Group data. Double counting in the allocation of sales revenue, investments, and operating expenses is avoided. If data could not be clearly allocated when determining the key figures, suitable allocation keys were used.

The EU taxonomy defines **sales revenue** as net sales of goods or services including intangible assets. The share of sales revenue associated with taxonomy-eligible economic activities is divided by net sales. To determine the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue, the respective SGL Carbon products were allocated to the taxonomy-eligible economic activities. For the products identified in this way, the corresponding sales revenue with third-party customers for fiscal year 2023 (numerator) was determined and compared to the sales revenue reported in the consolidated income statement (denominator).

## Page 31

**Capital expenditures** (capex) as defined by the EU taxonomy comprise additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the financial year under review before depreciation, amortization, and revaluations. Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditures relate to assets or processes associated with taxonomy-eligible economic activities or that are part of a plan to expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or transform taxonomy-eligible economic activities into taxonomy-aligned economic activities, or that relate to the acquisition of products from taxonomy-aligned economic activities and individual measures that carry out the target activities in a low-carbon manner or reduce greenhouse gas emissions (e.g., energy retrofits). SGL Carbon refers to capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (denominator). From this, the share of taxonomy-eligible capital expenditures is to be determined (numerator). For this purpose, the products identified via the taxonomy-eligible economic activities were related to the corresponding capital expenditures and, in addition, individual capital expenditures from the purchase of products from taxonomy-eligible economic activities and the implementation of individual measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions were taken into account. The various taxonomy-eligible capital expenditures were compared to the investments reported in the Annual Report.

**Operating expenses** (opex) as defined by the EU taxonomy comprise direct, non-capitalized costs relating to research and development and maintenance and repair. Taxonomy-eligible operating expenses relate to assets associated with taxonomy-eligible economic activities or that are part of a plan to expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or transform taxonomy-eligible economic activities into taxonomy-aligned economic activities, or that relate to the acquisition of products from taxonomy-eligible economic activities and individual measures that carry out the target activities in a low-carbon manner or reduce greenhouse gas emissions and individual building renovations. SGL Carbon refers to expenses for maintenance and repair, renovations, and research and development (denominator). For this, the share of taxonomy-eligible operating expenses is determined (numerator). For this purpose, the products identified via the taxonomy-eligible economic activities were related to the corresponding operating expenses and, in addition, individual operating expenses from the purchase of products from taxonomy-eligible economic activities and the implementation of individual measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or building renovations were taken into account. This key figure is determined exclusively as part of taxonomy reporting.

#### **Verification of taxonomy-compliance**

Economic activities are taxonomy-aligned (aligned) if they make a significant contribution to at least one environmental goal (compliance with the technical screening criteria). In addition, economic activities must not cause significant harm to the broader environmental objectives (do no significant harm, (DNSH), in compliance with technical screening criteria). In addition, the minimum safeguards for occupational safety and human rights must be observed and respected.

First, the product portfolio of each business unit was reviewed with regard to the description of the activity according to (EU) 2021/2800 Annex I. For this purpose, business unit experts from sustainability, product management, development, and application technology were consulted. If there was agreement, the technical evaluation criteria were reviewed with the same group of experts with regard to a significant contribution to climate protection. Environmental experts from Corporate EHSA were consulted for the subsequent review of the avoidance of material adverse effects. The results were recorded and documented in a structured manner.

An assessment of the essential use of critical substances within the meaning of the opening clauses in Annex C (f) and (g) ("essential for the society") was not performed. SGL Carbon expects further clarifying regulations in this regard.

In fiscal year 2023, capital expenditures were made related to the acquisition of products from taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities and individual measures that carry out target activities in a low-carbon manner or reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Verification of the conformity of this investment (capex (c)), including compliance with the minimum safeguards, must already be performed at the supplier level. However, the suppliers were not able to demonstrate compliance with the minimum safeguards as defined in Article 3(c) of the EU Taxonomy Regulation.

For the economic activity manufacture of automotive and mobility components pursuant to (EU) 2023/2485, only the taxonomy eligibility is reported pursuant to legal requirements. With the new activity 3.18 (manufacture of automotive and mobility components), suppliers now have the option to identify more automotive components as taxonomyeligible within the framework of the EU taxonomy. This option also includes the composite battery boxes that SGL Carbon produces in the CS business unit.

## Page 32

#### **Minimum safeguards**

Minimum safeguards as defined by the EU taxonomy include the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Standards, and the International Bill of Human Rights. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact and in its internal guidelines (SGL Carbon Code of Conduct, Human Rights Guideline and Supplier Code), SGL Carbon is committed to respecting and protecting human rights and upholding the principles of the UN Global Compact, which are based on the above-mentioned sets of rules. SGL Carbon has introduced a Human Rights Management System, which is part of the overarching and certified Compliance Management System. For the elements of the Human Rights Management System, please refer to the chapters on respect for human rights, responsibility in the supply chain, occupational health and safety, and compliance management in this CSR Report.

The following tables show the taxonomy-eligible (eligible) and taxonomy-aligned (aligned) portions of SGL Carbon's sales revenue, capital expenditures, and operating expenses for fiscal year 2023 in the presentation required by law (see in this regard Regulation (EU) 2021/2178).

As the relevant activities only contribute to one environmental objective in each case, the tables supplementing the templates via footnotes in accordance with Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 have been omitted.

SGL Carbon has no economic activities in the areas of fossil gas and nuclear energy within the meaning of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. Due to the scope of reporting templates 1 to 5 of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214, they are not presented in tabular form, since there is no taxonomy eligibility and all reporting forms would therefore contain "no" or zero.

#### **Outlook**

In 2025, there will be a reporting obligation for the taxonomy compliance of economic activities in all six environmental goals. According to Article 19(5) of the Taxonomy Regulation, the EU Commission will review technical assessment criteria on a regular basis or at least every three years in the case of activities that are considered transitional activities within the meaning of Article 10(2) of the Taxonomy Regulation. SGL Carbon will take any resulting adjustments to the Delegated Regulation into account in the future.

## Page 33

| Reporting form according to EU taxonomy:<br>Sales revenue                                                                   |         |                      |                              |  | Substantial<br>contribution<br>criteria |                              |                                  | DNHS criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------------------|------------------------------|--|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities                                                                                                         | Code(s) | Absolute<br>turnover | Proportion<br>of<br>turnover |  | Climate change<br>mitigation            | Climate change<br>adaptation | Water and<br>marine<br>resources | Circular<br>economy                           | Pollution     | Biodiversity and<br>ecosystems | Climate change<br>mitigation | Climate change<br>adaptation | Water and<br>marine<br>resources | Circular<br>economy | Pollution | Biodiversity and<br>ecosystems | Minimum<br>safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned pro-<br>portion of turn-<br>over, year N-1 | Category<br>(enabling<br>activity) | Category<br>(transitional<br>activity) |  |
|                                                                                                                             |         | €<br>million         | %                            |  | Y; N;<br>N/EL                           | Y; N; N/EL                   | Y; N; N/EL                       | Y; N;<br>N/EL                                 | Y; N;<br>N/EL | Y; N; N/EL                     | Y/N                          | Y/N                          | Y/N                              | Y/N                 | Y/N       | Y/N                            | Y/N                   | %                                                           | E                                  | T                                      |  |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                             |         |                      |                              |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-<br>aligned)                                                          |         |                      |                              |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                | 3.1.    | 7.1                  | 0.6%                         |  | Y                                       | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                                          | N/EL          | N/EL                           | -                            | Y                            | Y                                | Y                   | Y         | Y                              | Y                     | 0.6%                                                        | E                                  |                                        |  |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities                                                                          |         |                      |                              |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                                                    |         | 7.1                  | 0.6%                         |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                | -                            | Y                            | Y                                | Y                   | Y         | Y                              | Y                     | 0.6%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| thereof enabling activity                                                                                                   |         | 7.1                  | 0.6%                         |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                | -                            | Y                            | Y                                | Y                   | Y         | Y                              | Y                     | 0.6%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| of which transitional activity (T)                                                                                          |         | 0.0                  | 0.0%                         |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally<br>sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                   |         |                      |                              |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
|                                                                                                                             |         |                      |                              |  | EL;<br>N/EL                             | EL; N/EL                     | EL; N/EL                         | EL;<br>N/EL                                   | EL;<br>N/EL   | EL; N/EL                       |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                                | 3.1.    | 76.1                 | 7.0%                         |  | EL                                      | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                                          | N/EL          | N/EL                           |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 8.0%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| Manufacture of equipment for the production and use<br>of hydrogen                                                          | 3.2.    | 0.0                  | 0.0%                         |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 0.1%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                                    | 3.4.    | 15.9                 | 1.5%                         |  | EL                                      | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                                          | N/EL          | N/EL                           |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 1.7%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| Manufacturing of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                                      | 3.18.   | 38.5                 | 3.5%                         |  | EL                                      | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                                          | N/EL          | N/EL                           |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 0.0                                                         |                                    |                                        |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-<br>aligned activities) (A.2) |         | 130.5                | 12.0%                        |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 9.8%                                                        |                                    |                                        |  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                           |         | 137.6                | 12.6%                        |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 10.4%                                                       |                                    |                                        |  |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES)                                                                                        |         |                      |                              |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                            |         | 951.5                | 87.4%                        |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |
| Total A + B)                                                                                                                |         | 1,089.1              | 100.0%                       |  |                                         |                              |                                  |                                               |               |                                |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                             |                                    |                                        |  |

## Page 34

| Reporting form according to EU taxonomy:<br>Capital expenditure (capex)                                        |         |                |                        |                | Substantial<br>contribution<br>criteria |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             | DNHS criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------------|------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                            | Code(s) | Absolute Capex | Proportion of<br>Capex | € mil-<br>lion | %                                       | Climate change<br>mitigation | Climate change<br>adaptation | Water and<br>marine<br>resources | Circular<br>economy | Pollution   | Biodiversity and<br>ecosystems                | Climate change<br>mitigation | Climate change<br>adaptation | Water and<br>marine<br>resources | Circular<br>economy | Pollution | Biodiversity and<br>ecosystems | Minimum<br>safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned<br>proportion of<br>Capex, year N-1 | Category<br>(enabling<br>activity) | Category<br>(transitional<br>activity) |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                |         |                |                        |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-<br>aligned)                                             |         |                |                        |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| Capex of environmentally sustainable activities<br>(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                    |         | 0.0            | 0.0%                   |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                | 0.0%                  |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| thereof enabling activity                                                                                      |         | 0.0            | 0.0%                   |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| of which transitional activity (T)                                                                             |         | 0.0            | 0.0%                   |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally<br>sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)      |         |                |                        |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
|                                                                                                                |         |                |                        |                |                                         | EL; N/EL                     | EL;<br>N/EL                  | EL; N/EL                         | EL;<br>N/EL         | EL;<br>N/EL | EL;<br>N/EL                                   |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                   | 3.1.    | 0              | 0.0%                   |                |                                         | EL                           | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                | N/EL        | N/EL                                          |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 0.7%                                                 |                                    |                                        |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                       | 3.4.    | 1.2            | 1.4%                   |                |                                         | EL                           | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                | N/EL        | N/EL                                          |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 7.0%                                                 |                                    |                                        |
| Manufacturing of automotive and mobility components                                                            | 3.18.   | 1.1            | 1.3%                   |                |                                         | EL                           | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                | N/EL        | N/EL                                          |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 0%                                                   |                                    |                                        |
| Generation of heat/steam                                                                                       | 4.24.   | 7              | 8.0%                   |                |                                         | EL                           | N/EL                         | N/EL                             | N/EL                | N/EL        | N/EL                                          |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 4.6%                                                 |                                    |                                        |
| Capex of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally<br>sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) |         |                |                        |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| (A.2)                                                                                                          |         | 9.3            | 10.7%                  |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 12.3%                                                |                                    |                                        |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                              |         | 9.3            | 10.7%                  |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       | 12.3%                                                |                                    |                                        |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES )                                                                          |         |                |                        |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| Capex of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                      |         | 77.8           | 89.3%                  |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |
| Total A + B)                                                                                                   |         | 87.1           | 100.0%                 |                |                                         |                              |                              |                                  |                     |             |                                               |                              |                              |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |                                                      |                                    |                                        |

## Page 35

| Reporting form according to EU taxonomy: Operating expenses (opex)                                               | Substantial contribution criteria |               |                    |                           |                           |                            | DNHS criteria ('Does Not Significantly Harm') |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------|--------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------|------------------|-----------|-----------------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                              | Code(s)                           | Absolute Opex | Proportion of Opex | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water and marine resources | Circular economy                              | Pollution  | Biodiversity and ecosystems | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water and marine resources | Circular economy | Pollution | Biodiversity and ecosystems | Minimum safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned proportion of Opex, year N-1 | Taxonomy-aligned proportion of Opex, year N-1 | Category (enabling activity) | Category (transitional activity) |
|                                                                                                                  |                                   | € million     | %                  | Y; N; N/EL                | Y; N; N/EL                | Y; N; N/EL                 | Y; N; N/EL                                    | Y; N; N/EL | Y; N; N/EL                  | Y/N                       | Y/N                       | Y/N                        | Y/N              | Y/N       | Y/N                         | Y/N                | %                                             | Percent                                       | E                            | T                                |
| A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                  |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy- aligned)                                                  |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Opex of environmentally sustainable activities                                                                   |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                                                                         |                                   | 0             | 0.0%               |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 0.0%                                          | -                                             |                              |                                  |
| thereof enabling activity                                                                                        |                                   | 0             | 0.0%               |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| of which transitional activity (T)                                                                               |                                   | 0             | 0.0%               |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally                                                                    |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                                                         |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Manufacture of renewable energy technologies                                                                     | 3.1.                              | 4.3           | 5.3%               | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL       | N/EL                        |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 8.5%                                          |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Manufacture of batteries                                                                                         | 3.4.                              | 8.9           | 10.9%              | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL       | N/EL                        |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 12.0%                                         |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Manufacturing of automotive and mobility components                                                              | 3.18.                             | 3.0           | 3.7%               | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL                       | N/EL                                          | N/EL       | N/EL                        |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 0%                                            |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Opex of Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| (A.2)                                                                                                            |                                   | 16.3          | 20.0%              |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 20.5%                                         |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Total (A.1 + A.2)                                                                                                |                                   | 16.3          | 20.0%              |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    | 20.5%                                         | -                                             |                              |                                  |
| B. TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES)                                                                             |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Opex of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                     |                                   | 65.1          | 80.0%              |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
| Total A + B)                                                                                                     |                                   | 81.4          | 100.0%             |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |
|                                                                                                                  |                                   |               |                    |                           |                           |                            |                                               |            |                             |                           |                           |                            |                  |           |                             |                    |                                               |                                               |                              |                                  |

Y: Yes, taxonomy-compliant activity that conforms to the relevant environmental objective;

N: No, taxonomy-compliant activity, but not taxonomy-compliant with the relevant environmental objective

EL: "eligible", taxonomy-eligible activity for the respective target

N/EL: "not eligible", activity not eligible for taxonomy for the respective environmental objective

## Page 36

#### **Sustainable product innovation**

Development activities take place in the four business units and derive directly from the strategic objectives of the product groups or business lines. They are characterized by the respective market developments, customer requirements and the market environment.

Based on the performance of the double materiality analysis in the 2023 fiscal year, the sub-topic "Sustainable product innovations" is not a material ESG aspect in accordance with the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). To ensure continuous reporting and given the importance of sustainable products for the economic development of SGL Carbon, we continue to report on the research focus of the individual business units in the section "Research and Development" (unaudited) in the Group Management Report.

# Social (including employee concerns)

### **Occupational health and safety**

Health and safety of our employees have top priority at SGL Carbon. As a responsible company, protecting the health and safety of employees is both an ethical obligation and a prerequisite for the company's performance. In this regard, the Code of Conduct and the globally applicable EHSA Guideline (Environmental Health & Safety Affairs) set out the requirements that are binding for all employees. SGL Carbon also attaches importance to appropriate standards for business partners and takes occupational health and safety aspects into account in the selection of suppliers. The Business Partner Code of Conduct valid for all business partners requires them to ensure the health and safety of employees in all workplaces and to establish a management system for continuous improvement. Since 2022, all active suppliers also received an online Supplier Risk Assessment questionnaire on sustainability. The online Supplier Risk Assessment contains standard elements on sustainability that also cover the topics of supply chain responsibility and health and safety. The results of the online questionnaire are incorporated into the risk assessment of each supplier, with the aim of eliminating or mitigating the risks identified (detailed information on the Supplier Risk Assessment can be found in the Governance chapter of this report).

The central corporate EHSA unit (Environmental Health & Safety Affairs) is responsible for drafting Group-wide guidelines and standards for preventing work-related accidents and diseases. The respective business and central corporate units and site management are responsible for implementing the specifications. Within the global EHSA network, the central corporate EHSA unit and local EHS managers also discuss overarching issues. This is to ensure that all legal and SGL-internal regulations are complied with and that corresponding systems are established at each site. In addition, the central EHSA unit, in cooperation with the local EHS managers, conducts audits that also evaluate, among other things, the implementation of the Group-wide occupational health and safety standards and their advancement. EHSA audits also include compliance with energy and environmental standards. As a rule, the sites are inspected by the central corporate EHSA unit every three years, or more often if incidents have frequently occurred at any given site. A total of nine sites were audited in 2023, with some of these audits performed remotely (via virtual video). EHSA reports to the HSE Council (Health, Safety & Environmental Council) and provides updates three times per year. The HSE Council is composed of the two members of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon, the heads of the business units and central corporate units and the global corporate EHSA team, with the Chairperson of the Board of Management also serving as Chairperson of the HSE Council. This body is responsible for monitoring and controlling occupational health and safety measures.

SGL Carbon's top occupational health and safety goal is to systematically prevent workrelated injuries and diseases. It is the responsibility of the company's management, all management levels and each individual employee to ensure safe working conditions and to comply with all relevant national laws, European regulations and internal guidelines in all production processes. As a short- and medium-term objective, we have set for ourselves the goal of constantly improving the existing security measures. In the recent fiscal years, we have succeeded in reducing our lost-time injuries (accident-related absence of workers and temporary workers from the workplace for more than 24 hours) with lost time per million working hours each year. After an LTI frequency rate of 2.8 in 2021 and 2.3 in 2022, we exceeded our target of an FR < 2.4 in 2023 with 1.6. Three business units (BU CF, CS and PT) were accident-free in 2023; BU PT has been accident-free for 881 days, BU CF for 648 days and BU CS for 419 days (each as of February 15, 2024). Since 2021, a reason for the successful development was the implementation of processes in which we learn effectively from accidents with downtime and near misses and transfer best practice examples from individual locations to all other locations. Monthly calls were held with all locations worldwide in 2023 to present and analyze reportable accidents, including the causes of

## Page 37

accidents and corrective actions, as well as near misses (17 in 2023) and 18 examples of "Best Practice". We aim to reduce our LTI frequency rate by 5% annually by 2025.

To achieve the occupational health and safety targets, SGL Carbon uses a variety of incentive systems that actively involve employees in accident prevention and that take their ideas to eliminate accident risks into account. At the Bonn, Meitingen, Limburg and Wackerdorf sites, 171 valuable suggestions for improving safety were submitted in the scope of the ideas management process (deadline: December 31, 2023), 124 of which were processed and completed (deadline: February 20, 2024). The remaining 47 are currently being implemented. A Safety Award is also presented annually to sites where there have been no accidents in the last three years. Fourteen sites received this award in 2023. On the local level, the topic of occupational health and safety is included in the annual targets of many sites. But even when we look beyond the local sites, the topic of occupational health and safety is specified as a target figure of the variable compensation structure for the four management levels below the Board of Management. To further raise awareness of occupational safety throughout the workforce, a Group-wide "Safety Day" was held again in 2023, with active participation also by the Board of Management and management team. On August 31, 2023, information events and live training sessions were held at all SGL sites worldwide. At all production sites, information and training was also provided in particular on the important occupational safety topics: safe working with rotating parts, hazards at workplaces with rolls and rollers, the use of appropriate protective equipment and avoiding accidents caused by tripping, slipping and falling.

**Safety Day Logo:**

Image /page/36/Picture/4 description: The image is a promotional graphic for SGL Carbon's Safety Day on August 31, 2023. The background is a teal color. On the left side of the image are three yellow warning signs with black outlines. The top left sign shows a factory, the top right sign shows a hard hat, and the bottom sign shows a person walking down stairs. To the right of the signs is the text "Safety Safety Day August 31, 2023 First" in white and yellow. In the bottom right corner is the SGL Carbon logo in white.

Occupational accidents that occur despite all precautions and safety standards are recorded in the Group-wide accident management system. In a systematic process, incidents are investigated, suggestions for improvement are derived and consideration is given to which solutions have already proven effective in preventing accidents. Accidents are stringently classified according to severity. There have been no fatal accidents at SGL in the last six years. Once a month, the central corporate EHSA unit provides the Board of Management of SGL Carbon, the heads of the business units and the sites, and the EHS managers with a safety report and relevant statistics. In addition, weekly reporting is carried out to track the current safety situation with detailed information on new accidents. This makes it possible to evaluate compliance with the health and safety guideline and immediately initiate countermeasures if a negative trend can be discerned. Furthermore, a monthly exchange between the sites takes place so that those involved can learn from each other and avoid risks identified at other sites.

The applicable safety precautions and standards are constantly being developed to further reduce the frequency of accidents. In the 2021 fiscal year, a global safety manual with minimum standards was developed and the ten most important rules for protecting occupational safety were clearly illustrated graphically to all employees. The global occupational safety policy was additionally updated in the 2022 fiscal year. Numerous initiatives were also made possible. Almost 60 plant visits including safety inspections were conducted and approx. 170 improvement opportunities were identified, of which

## Page 38

approximately 73% have now been implemented. Various local programs were also carried out. In 2023, 6,308 behavior-based observations (BBO) were carried out in China: 2,132 observations had a positive result and 1,242 observations showed opportunities for improvement. 89% of these findings have already been implemented. The results of the BBOs steer our program towards improving safety at our Chinese sites in subsequent years. SGL Carbon also conducts employee training courses. Training is provided not only by EHSA experts but also by managers who were required to train and support employees in their areas of responsibility regarding safety issues. This is intended to increase the workforce's awareness of safety-relevant aspects and to prevent accidents.

Process safety is a significant factor in the prevention of occupational accidents. Events such as accidents, fires or explosions could cause significant harm to people and the environment as well as lead to prolonged interruptions of production and loss of quality at SGL Carbon. Claims for compensation and damage remediation could arise from this. The goal is therefore both to ensure the safety of production processes as best possible and to achieve continuous improvements in the safety culture. SGL had no serious accidents in terms of process safety in 2023.

As part of its corporate duty of due diligence, SGL Carbon drafted a globally applicable Process Safety Policy and has maintained a Process Safety System since 2017. The system includes a variety of different components, such as process safety analyses, accident investigations and countermeasure control. Process safety is also a topic of discussion at HSE Council meetings. In addition, every accident is precisely recorded, analyzed and classified in the Incident Management System for occupational and process safety. This is done to determine whether an incident occurred in occupational health and safety or process safety. SGL Carbon uses a uniform Group-wide risk management system to identify and, if necessary, minimize risks in its production processes. This involves analyzing the extent and hazard potential of crisis events and calculating their economic consequences – such as the costs of eliminating environmental harm or loss of sales revenue due to production downtime. For each primary risk, one or more risk mitigation measures were identified and will be initiated if necessary.

SGL Carbon conducts annual reviews in cooperation with a property insurance company. This involves subjecting many processes and plants to a safety analysis that primarily focuses on fire control and protection as well as operational interruption. The results are evaluated and documented. Specific measures for improvement are drawn up if necessary. A total of seven sites were assessed in 2023. Also in 2023, the insurer continued high-level training on fire control and protection system design to a group of technicians.

# Employee concerns

### **General information**

SGL Carbon employs a total of 4,808 people in 29 locations in Europe, Asia, and North America (as of December 31, 2023). Their commitment, expertise, and performance make a crucial contribution to the company's success as a business. That is why SGL Carbon strives to attract the best talent and to develop and retain employees in a targeted manner. In addition to training and education opportunities, SGL Carbon also relies on a fair and value-based work and management culture that embraces diversity as well as a compensation structure based on performance. The company offers all employees the opportunity to develop their full potential. This understanding of the company's relationship with its employees is defined in the Code of Conduct, the SGL Competence Model, and the SGL Value Carta. The latter was formulated in 2022 and includes five values that now form the basis of SGL's performance culture:

- Integrity and honesty
- Respect and appreciation
- Accountability
- Trust
- Passion for success

At SGL Carbon, Human Resources is viewed as a strategic partner and adviser to the business units, central functions, managers, and employees. The spectrum of HR tasks ranges from initiator to involvement in strategic decisions to operational HR processes.

In accordance with the wide assortment of tasks, the HR Business Partners are positioned both centrally for the business units and central functions and on the local level for the individual production sites. The SGL HR Business Partner model is structured so that the Senior HR Business Partners, i.e., the contact persons for the management of the business

## Page 39

units and central functions in all strategic HR issues, report to the Head of Group Human Resources in disciplinary and technical terms, as do the Heads of HR at the two overarching BU sites in Meitingen and Charlotte. HR management is responsible for a wide array of tasks:

- Management of HR processes such as recruitment and supporting personnel, including labor law issues
- Qualification, coaching, and continuing education of managers and employees
- Development of market- and performance-oriented compensation systems for senior management
- Development of the SGL performance culture
- Global HR controlling and personnel planning
- Positioning of SGL Carbon as an attractive employer in the labor market and internal employee communications
- Efficient management of the impact of change processes in human resources

In addition to efficiency, customer proximity and service quality are key criteria in the design and implementation of HR processes. Against this backdrop, SGL Carbon is implementing a comprehensive cloud-based IT solution for these processes. The staggered golive of this IT system began in fiscal year 2021 and continued in the two subsequent years. In the reporting year it should be highlighted that access to the digital learning platform was established for all production employees worldwide ("access for all") through appropriate infrastructure and process measures.

The HR unit reports directly to the Board of Management on a regular basis. For example, the Head of Group HR holds regular consultations with the Board of Management, thus giving HR issues a high level of attention from senior management.

SGL Carbon constantly monitors and minimizes potential risks in the area of personnel. Due to the increasing shortage of skilled workers, special attention is paid to the strategic importance of recruiting. The same applies to employee engagement efforts. These are intended to counteract a high level of fluctuation, thereby also retaining expertise in the company and, in particular, preventing the departure of crucial "key employees."

#### Employability and development (including values and culture)

A material objective of the work of HR is to maintain the employability of employees and nurture their professional and personal development. Systematic development of personnel is an integral component of SGL Carbon's corporate philosophy. Such development serves to bolster the competitiveness of the company and incentivize the company to take responsibility for the employees. Another component of personnel development entails initiatives that assess the potential of employees to serve in management and expert positions.

In 2021, the SGL Top Talent Program was launched and serves to identify and foster talented employees with medium- to long-term potential for leadership positions in senior management. In the year under review, the program was continued with a number of activities, including the continuation of the internal training series "Inhouse Leadership Exchange" and one-on-one meetings with mentors from top management.

The format for up-and-coming nominated individuals launched last year called, the "People Fair/Personnel Conference" was paused in 2023 for resource-related reasons, but will be held again in the following year.

Succession management is a proven personnel and management development tool. In 2021, dedicated succession planning was performed for the first time for the top management levels. In addition, a uniform framework was compiled in 2022 and implementation was started according to which all business units and corporate functions plan and manage succession for key positions critical to the company's success. By 2023, all business units and most corporate functions will have introduced this standardized succession management. Because of our knowledge about the (non-)availability of suitable internal employees, we can now make faster and better personnel decisions in the event of vacancies, and the rate of internal appointments can ideally be increased.

Development of personnel is not the responsibility of the HR department alone but is primarily a task for managers and thus within the scope of personnel management. The cornerstone of all personnel management is communication between managers and employees on a regular basis. That is why the "Management Dialogue" was rolled out in 2021 as a discussion format in the job areas not subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Management Dialogue involves managers and employees taking sufficient time to

## Page 40

exchange information, provide mutual feedback, and solve problems together once per month. This conversation format was also continued in 2023. Another element in the creation of a feedback culture in the company was the launch of a new 360-degree feedback tool and process. After the pilot phase in 2021 with managers who report directly to the Board of Management as focus individuals, the application was continued in 2022, particularly with participants in the Top Talent program. In the reporting year, 360-degree feedback processes followed for an additional 37 managers from upper and middle management and the upper pay scale.

A management development program for middle management was designed and planned in 2023 as a new and future central component of management development. The external training company we partnered with was selected in a multi-stage process involving the Board of Management, among others. The multimodular program was methodologically designed with a total of 10 training days, over 15 to 18 months, and combines classroom training with virtual group learning and self-directed e-learning. The content includes all the central topics and requirements of modern personnel management. Under the program title "Leadership4Performance," the first group of participants will start in January 2024.

Employer attractiveness is a key factor of a corporate culture, determining the company's ability to both attract and retain personnel resources that are critical to success. For many years, SGL Carbon has been positioning itself in the labor market with its own employer brand that can be clearly discerned on the company's careers page as well as elsewhere. The career site is constantly being developed. To support recruitment, the "Employees recruit employees" program, which had already been in place at the Meitingen site, was expanded to all German sites in the reporting year. In addition, a "Talent Attraction" Center of Excellence was implemented, which supports managers with active sourcing (i.e., directly approaching candidates) in recruiting for selected specialist and management positions.

| Number of staff                    | 2023  | 2022  |
|------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| Number of employees                | 4,808 | 4,760 |
| Number of new hires (worldwide) 1) | 570   | 504   |
| – thereof men                      | 77.2% | 81.3% |
| – thereof women                    | 22.8% | 18.7% |
| Fluctuation rate (worldwide) 2)    | 14.9% | 14.2% |
| – Europe                           | 10.2% | 11.4% |
| – North America                    | 34.4% | 27.7% |
| – Asia                             | 15.2% | 11.2% |

1) Exclusively includes "real" new hires for employees with non-limited term contracts, i.e., not taking over temporary employees or removing limited terms on employment contracts.

2) Based on the average headcount, includes employees leaving the company voluntarily and involuntarily.

The goal of standardizing the process globally to the extent that this is possible and makes sense, taking into account the legal and cultural framework in the individual countries, was already largely achieved in the year under review. The relevant cloud-based IT solution covers all SGL countries, with a few exceptions representing less than 5% of SGL's workforce. To simplify the application process and improve the candidate experience, the "Apply with LinkedIn" function was introduced on the electronic application platform in 2023, allowing job applicants to link their application to their social media profile. As a voluntarily provided fringe benefit that makes a positive contribution to employer attractiveness, SGL Carbon offers employees in Germany a forward-looking, contribution-based, and securities-linked company retirement benefit plan that provides additional financial security during retirement. Occupational health and safety issues play a prominent role in SGL's culture and this also applies to preventative measures regarding employee health. In the area of Workplace Health Management (WHM), employees in Germany can take advantage of a variety of different resources on a decentralized basis, that is, on the level of the individual plants. During the year under review, flu vaccinations were performed at various locations.

Employee surveys are both an established method for analyzing corporate culture and the basis for actively shaping it. In the 2022 fiscal year, a Group-wide, exclusively electronic employee survey called THE VOICE was conducted in the context of the recently launched Group initiative "Performance Culture & Values." THE VOICE records various aspects of the perceived performance culture – to what extent are SGL's five values already being lived, to what extent do employees feel emotionally connected to the company (employee
