## Page 40

steers prioritisation of decarbonisation efforts. The increased data availability and data collection exercises over the year 2023, enables a presentation of re-stated intensity figures for the year 2022 which utilise actual consumption data alongside CRREM proxy data.

From a total AUM of EUR 57.3bn, the analysis of floor area weighted carbon and energy intensity for 2023 covers EUR 39.4bn, or 69%, excluding infrastructure assets, the Dawonia portfolio, the Sustainable Future Ventures fund, PGP investments and the Advantage portfolio, as well as assets where the granularity of data was insufficient to accurately calculate physical risks. Please note that due to the increased data availability, the floor area weighted carbon intensity for the year 2022 is restated.

#### **Floor area weighted carbon intensity<sup>28</sup>**

| In kg CO²e/m²/year | Office | Residential | Retail | Industrial |
|--------------------|--------|-------------|--------|------------|
| 2021               | 52.56  | 29.79       | 50.10  | 19.50      |
| 2022               | 48.38  | 26.03       | 48.54  | 15.15      |
| 2023               | 44.20  | 23.22       | 43.41  | 14.19      |

#### **Floor area weighted energy intensity <sup>27</sup>**

| In kwh/m2/year | Office | Residential | Retail | Industrial |
|----------------|--------|-------------|--------|------------|
| 2021           | 190.32 | 137.72      | 210.10 | 57.75      |
| 2022           | 178.46 | 127.85      | 194.43 | 55.13      |
| 2023           | 167.62 | 119.32      | 179.68 | 51.67      |

Through a concerted effort over the coming years, PATRIZIA's goal is to progressively replace the assumption-based data with actual consumption data to refine the accuracy of analysis and track PATRIZIA's progress accurately over time. Having set ambitious decarbonisation goals, the Company strives to monitor the GHG emissions from own corporate operations, including offices and business travel. Measures are in place to capture emissions from corporate activities to establish a meaningful baseline. PATRIZIA is also implementing initial reduction measures: Starting from 1 January 2024, all new vehicle orders for the company fleet must be powered electrically.

<sup>28</sup> This disclosure leverages reputable sources for proxy data, based on the location, sector type and floor area of PATRIZIA's assets. While this data provides a useful indication of PATRIZIA's carbon intensity and associated risk, we recognise that there are inherent inaccuracies, which will be addressed over time as we replace proxy data with actual data. The scope 2 component of the carbon intensity figures disclosed is location-based, and therefore does not account for the considerable proportion of PATRIZIA's energy that is procured from renewable sources, which we consider to be a conservative approach.

## Page 41

# **4.2.2 EU Taxonomy Regulation**

### **Background**

Regulation (EU) 2020/852 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment ('Taxonomy Regulation') has established a unified EU classification system for environmentally sustainable economic activities (referred to as 'Taxonomy-aligned activities') and imposes transparency obligations on certain non-financial and financial undertakings with respect to those activities.

The Taxonomy Regulation recognises an economic activity as environmentally sustainable when it contributes significantly to one or more of six environmental objectives, while not causing significant harm to any of the remaining objectives (the so called 'do no significant harm' principle), providing that it is carried out in compliance with minimum social safeguards. The six objectives are:

- − Climate change mitigation
- − Climate change adaptation
- − Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources
- − Transition to a circular economy
- − Pollution prevention and control
- − Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems

The criteria for assessing alignment with each of the six objectives has been implemented in stages, through delegated and implementing acts. In June 2021, the Commission adopted the EU Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act ('Climate Delegated Act'), which established criteria for measuring substantial contribution to the environmental objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation. In June 2023, the Commission adopted the EU Taxonomy Environmental Delegated Act ('Environmental Delegated Act'), which established criteria for the remaining four environmental objectives. An investment activity that is not currently recognised by the Taxonomy Regulation as contributing substantially to one of the EU's environmental objectives is not necessarily unsustainable and may be included in future.

The Taxonomy Regulation introduced mandatory disclosure obligations for organisations in scope of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) and the proceeding Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), with disclosure rules that differ for non-financial and financial undertakings. Undertakings subject to non-financial reporting are required to disclose how and to what extent their activities are associated with environmentally sustainable activities, allowing for the comparison of companies and investment portfolios. In July 2021, the Commission adopted the Delegated Act that specifies the content and presentation of disclosures made by undertakings regarding those of their activities that are Taxonomyeligible and Taxonomy-aligned ('Disclosures Delegated Act'), which was amended in June 2023 by the Environmental Delegated Act for consistency.

Between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2022 (for FY 2021), non-financial undertakings were required to disclose only the proportion of their economic activities that were Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-non-eligible, for the objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation. From 1 January 2023 (for FY 2022), they started to disclose Taxonomy-alignment. Financial undertakings reported Taxonomy-eligibility and Taxonomy-non-eligibility from 1 January 2022 until 31 December 2023, and Taxonomy-alignment from 2024 (for FY 2023), based on information disclosed by their counterparties.

In this context, eligibility refers to investments in economic activities that are in scope of the Taxonomy Regulation, i.e., for which assessment criteria has been defined. Taxonomy-eligibility, therefore, does not provide an indication of the environmental sustainability of investments. Taxonomy-alignment, however, implies that an activity fulfils the criteria for determining substantial contribution to one or more of the EU environmental objectives.

Regarding the four environmental objectives specified by the Environmental Delegated Act, disclosures made by financial undertakings between 1 January 2024 and 31 December 2025 (for the previous financial year) are only to include the proportion of Taxonomy-eligible activities in their assets under management. From 1 January 2026 (for FY 2025), disclosure of Taxonomy-alignment will cover all six environmental objectives.

PATRIZIA interprets that parent undertakings should report the consolidated Taxonomy KPIs of their respective business segments, based on the activities carried out by their subsidiaries. As the primary activity of the subsidiaries of PATRIZIA SE is asset management, PATRIZIA SE discloses based on the rules for financial undertakings, applying the Taxonomy KPIs referred to in Annexes III and IV of the Disclosures Delegated Act, which are relevant for asset management activities.

On 21 December 2023, a Draft Commission Notice was published on the interpretation and implementation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act. Due to its late publication date, this has not been taken into account for this disclosure.

## Page 42

In July 2022, the Commission published the Complementary Climate Delegated Act, which included specific nuclear and gas energy related activities in the list of economic activities covered by the EU Taxonomy. The Act requires that non-financial and financial undertakings disclose their exposures to nuclear and fossil gas related activities in a separate disclosure, including the amount and proportion of Taxonomy-aligned, Taxonomy-eligible, and Taxonomy-non-eligible nuclear and gas energy related activities.

### **Methodology**

The Taxonomy KPIs for asset managers require calculation of the proportion of investments made in Taxonomy-aligned economic activities in the value of their total AUM, which covers both collective and individual portfolio management, excluding exposures to central governments, central banks and supranational issuers. Total AUM are calculated on the basis of the latest available fair value of managed real estate and infrastructure investments. Hedging derivatives are therefore not included within the definition of total AUM. This is referred to as the Green Asset Ratio (GAR). Asset managers need to identify investments aimed at financing taxonomy-aligned economic activities. Taxonomy-alignment is expressed as the weighted average of the value of investments in Taxonomy-aligned economic activities, where the weighting is based on both the proportion of revenues and CapEx of investees, related to such activities.

In accordance with the Disclosures Delegated Act, the numerator of the Green Asset Ratio currently excludes derivatives and exposures to undertakings (including non-EU undertakings) that are not subject to non-financial reporting obligations pursuant to Article 19a and 29a of the Accounting Directive. On this basis, the scope of investee companies that are eligible to be reported as Taxonomy-aligned is limited. The denominator (i.e., AUM covered by the Taxonomy KPIs) consists of the value of all AUM without exposures to central governments, central banks and supranational issuers, which are excluded from both the numerator and denominator. The denominator includes cash (and cash equivalent assets), which cannot be assessed as Taxonomy-eligible as they are not funding an economic activity.

The turnover-based KPI indicates the proportion of investments in environmentally sustainable activities, determined as the weighted average value of investments, based on the proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activities of investee companies. For investments in non-financial undertakings, the numerator is calculated as the proportion of revenues derived from Taxonomy-aligned activities, as reported by the investee. For investments in real estate, the numerator is calculated as the rental income generated from Taxonomy-aligned properties. The turnover-based KPI provides the best indication of the proportion of AUM that is already Taxonomy-aligned.

The CapEx-based KPI indicates the weighted average value of investments, based on the proportion of capital expenditure for real estate assets or investee companies that is effectively assisting Taxonomy-aligned activities. This may include a CapEx plan to expand Taxonomy-alignment, produce Taxonomy-aligned output, or that relates to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The CapEx-based KPI provides an indication of efforts to increase Taxonomy-alignment. However, CapEx may only be recognised as Taxonomy-aligned where the methodology used meets certain conditions. CapEx may be recognised as Taxonomy-aligned where the expansion of Taxonomy-aligned activities becomes operational in the same financial period when all related CapEx is incurred. Otherwise, it must be part of a CapEx plan that specifically addresses all Technical Screening Criteria for rendering an investment activity as Taxonomy-aligned within a period of five years. Therefore, CapEx that partially addresses the criteria for increasing Taxonomy-alignment, such as improvements to energy efficiency or mitigation of climate risk, is currently excluded as Taxonomy-non-aligned.<sup>29</sup>

# **Qualitative Disclosures**

**Contextual information in support of the quantitative indicators, on the scope of assets, data sources and limitations**  PATRIZIA's assets under management primarily comprise investments in real estate and infrastructure. The scope of assets that are included in the quantitative indicators as Taxonomy-eligible fall within the sectors of construction and real estate, namely acquisition and ownership of buildings, and various infrastructure sectors, including energy, transport, and information and communication. Real estate investments, which can be associated with the NACE code L68<sup>30</sup>, constitute the majority of PATRIZIA's assets under management and are Taxonomy-eligible. At present, only those real estate assets domiciled in the EU and UK can be reliably assessed as Taxonomy-aligned due to the references within the Technical Screening Criteria to various EU regulations. In the breakdown of the KPIs, investments in real estate are categorised as exposures to other counterparties and assets.

PATRIZIA's AUM includes approximately EUR 25m of exposures to equities in companies that are involved in the nuclear and/or fossil gas related activities set out in Template 1 of Annex III of Delegated Regulation 2022/1214 (0.1% of total AUM). This figure includes investments in infrastructure funds or energy utilities companies with potential exposure to nuclear energy and fossil gas related activities that could not be confirmed due to lack of available data disclosed by those investee companies. Consequently, it is not currently possible to provide a complete breakdown of exposures to the nuclear and/or fossil gas related activities set out in rows 1-6 of Template 1.

<sup>29</sup> Draft commission notice 19 December 2022 (Question 26) <sup>30</sup> In accordance with the statistical classification of economic activities established by Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006

## Page 43

The scope of assets included in the KPI that are assessed as Taxonomy-non-eligible primarily comprise non-eligible infrastructure companies, cash (and cash equivalent assets), and exposures that cannot be reliably assessed as Taxonomyeligible due to limited granularity of available data, despite best efforts to collect such data. As this is the first year in which detailed Taxonomy disclosures are required, PATRIZIA expects to increase the completeness of future disclosures. Exposures to undertakings that are not subject to non-financial disclosures pursuant to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU ('NFRD companies') are excluded from the numerator (in accordance with Article 7(3) of Delegated Regulation 2021/2178). The Taxonomy Regulation therefore limits the scope of PATRIZIA's assets under management that can be considered Taxonomy-aligned to exposures to NFRD companies and real estate. This substantially limits the scope of PATRIZIA's infrastructure investments that are included as Taxonomy-eligible to a minor subset of AUM, mainly comprising listed infrastructure. The indicator regarding exposures to non-NFRD companies, which are excluded from the numerator, mainly comprises unlisted infrastructure equities and debt. When looking through exposures to NFRD companies, disclosures are based on the most recently available data reported by those investees.

The assessment of Taxonomy-alignment requires looking through underlying investments to determine compliance with numerous activity-specific and nuanced Technical Screening Criteria as well as Minimum Safeguards. All criteria must be fulfilled and sufficiently evidenced for investment activities to be considered Taxonomy-aligned. For real estate investments, where the necessary information and substantiating evidence is not reported and may not be available on proprietary systems in the level of detail required, the respective assets are reported as Taxonomy-non-aligned.

Similarly, where CapEx incurred is allocated to the improvement of environmental performance, such as energy efficiency, decarbonisation, or mitigation of climate risk, but is not specifically part of a Taxonomy compliant CapEx plan, the CapEx is excluded from the numerator of the CapEx KPI.

#### **The nature, objectives & evolution of Taxonomy-Aligned economic activities**

PATRIZIA's assets under management are typically in economic activities that play a role in the transition to a low carbon economy, including but not limited to the built environment, transportation, and energy related infrastructure, such as renewable energy. Correspondingly, a significant proportion of PATRIZIA's assets under management are designated by the Taxonomy Regulation as eligible to substantially contribute to the EU environmental objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation.

The proportion of PATRIZIA's assets under management that are reported as Taxonomy-aligned, within the parameters of the disclosure rules (e.g., excluding NFRD companies), are namely real estate assets that substantially contribute to the environmental objective of climate change mitigation. Those assets are determined to have an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating of at least 'A' and the physical climate risks material to the activity must be determined by means of a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment in accordance with the requirements of Appendix A in Annex I of the Climate Delegated Act (EU 2021/2139). In addition, the OECD guidelines in connection with the acquisition or ownership of the building must be fulfilled in accordance with Article 18 of the Taxonomy Regulation.

While the investment strategy of such investments did not explicitly include a commitment to aligning with the criteria of the Taxonomy Regulation, alignment is a product of the synergies with PATRIZIA's approach to ESG integration, including the management of climate related risk and opportunities to protect and enhance the value of assets.

As this is the first time that PATRIZIA is required to disclosure the proportion of exposures to Taxonomy-aligned economic activities, a comparison with previous periods is not available. PATRIZIA expects that the proportion of Taxonomy-aligned activities in its AUM will increase over time, including through business-related, methodological, and data-related developments.

### **Compliance with the Taxonomy Regulation in PATRIZIA's business strategy, product design processes and engagement activities**

PATRIZIA considers that its business strategy, including sustainability goals and responsible investment practices, supports contribution to the environmental objectives set out in the Taxonomy Regulation. For example, PATRIZIA's commitment to achieving net zero carbon by 2040 or sooner and the progression of the net zero carbon strategy supports increasing alignment with the EU objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation. Additionally, engagement with investee companies to establish ESG related goals and strategies, undertaken by PATRIZIA's Sustainable Transformation team, may lead to increased Taxonomy-alignment of portfolio companies.

The Taxonomy Regulation offers a harmonised framework for considering the environmental sustainability of eligible investments, which is complimentary to PATRIZIA's approach to ESG integration. PATRIZIA considers numerous ESG factors in its investment decision making process for real estate and infrastructure investments, including but not limited to the assessment of physical climate risk, leveraging state-of-the-art climate projections. Since the Taxonomy Regulation came into force, PATRIZIA has adapted its due diligence processes for the selection of real estate and infrastructure investments to include aspects of the Technical Screening Criteria to enable an assessment of Taxonomy-alignment (subject to data

## Page 44

availability). Furthermore, PATRIZIA continues to adapt its tools and systems for data collection to facilitate improvement in the analysis of ESG data pertaining to the Taxonomy Regulation.

PATRIZIA considers the objectives of the Taxonomy Regulation in the development of products. For example, the investment strategy and binding commitments of several real estate and infrastructure products include a commitment to a minimum proportion of Taxonomy-aligned investments. This is expected to result in increased capital allocation towards investments that substantially contribute to the environmental objectives of the EU.

# **Key Figures**

Standard template for the disclosure of KPIs for asset managers required under Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation:

| The weighted average value of all the investments that are<br>directed at funding, or are associated with taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities relative to the value of total assets<br>covered by the KPI, with following weights for investments<br>in undertakings per below: | The weighted average value of all the investments that<br>are directed at funding, or are associated with taxonomy-<br>aligned economic activities, with following weights for<br>investments in undertakings per below: |                                                                                                            |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Turnover-based: 4%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Turnover-based: EUR 2,108m                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                            |
| CapEx-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | CapEx-based: EUR 36m                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            |
| The percentage of assets covered by the KPI relative to total<br>investments (total AuM). Excluding investments in sovereign<br>entities, Coverage ratio: 100%                                                                                                                      | The monetary value of assets covered by the KPI.<br>Excluding investments in sovereign entities.<br>Coverage: EUR 57,251m                                                                                                |                                                                                                            |
| Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of denominator of the KPI                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| The percentage of derivatives relative to total assets covered<br>by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                                                       | The value in monetary amounts of derivatives:                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                            |
| 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of exposures to EU financial and non-<br>financial undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a<br>of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the<br>KPI:                                                                                              | Value of exposures to EU financial and non-financial<br>undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a of<br>Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                                     |                                                                                                            |
| For non-financial undertakings: 12%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | For non-financial undertakings: EUR 6,992m                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                            |
| For financial undertakings: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | For financial undertakings: EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings from non-EU countries not subject to<br>Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total<br>assets covered by the KPI:                                                                            | Value of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings from non-EU countries not subject to<br>Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                  |                                                                                                            |
| For non-financial undertakings: 5%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | For non-financial undertakings: EUR 3,071m                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                            |
| For financial undertakings: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | For financial undertakings: EUR 1m                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive<br>2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                         | Value of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of<br>Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                                            |                                                                                                            |
| For non-financial undertakings: 1%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | For non-financial undertakings: EUR 309m                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                            |
| For financial undertakings: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | For financial undertakings: EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of exposures to other counterparties and<br>assets over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                             | Value of exposures to other counterparties and assets:                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                            |
| 71%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | EUR 40,391m                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            |
| The value of all the investments that are funding economic<br>activities that are not taxonomy-eligible relative to the<br>value of total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                | Value of all the investments that are funding economic<br>activities that are not taxonomy-eligible:                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            |
| 42%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | EUR 23,853m                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            |
| The value of all the investments that are funding taxonomy-<br>eligible economic activities, but not taxonomy-aligned<br>relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                  | Value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy-<br>eligible economic activities, but not taxonomy-aligned:                                                                                                       |                                                                                                            |
| 41%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | EUR 23,380m                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            |
| Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of numerator of the KPI                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to financial<br>and non-financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a<br>and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets<br>covered by the KPI:                                                                                     | Value of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to financial and<br>non-financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a<br>and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:<br>For non-financial undertakings:                                        |                                                                                                            |
| For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| Turnover-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Turnover-based: EUR 27m                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                            |
| CapEx-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | CapEx-based: EUR 36m                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                            |
| Turnover-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Turnover-based: EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                            |
| Capital expenditures-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Capital expenditures-based: EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                            |
| The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to other                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Value of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to other                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                            |
| counterparties and assets in over total assets covered by                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | counterparties and assets:                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                            |
| the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Turnover-based: EUR 2,081m                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                            |
| Turnover-based: 4%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Capital expenditures-based: EUR 0                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                            |
| Capital expenditures-based: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| Breakdown of the numerator of the KPI per environmental objective                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| Taxonomy-aligned activities-:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| (1) Climate change mitigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Turnover: 4%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Transitional activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%<br>Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0% |
| (2) Climate change adaptation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                          |
| Taxonomy-eligible activities-:31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                            |
| (3) The sustainable use and protection of water and marine<br>resources                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                          |
| (4) The transition to a circular economy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                          |
| (5) Pollution prevention and control                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                          |
| (6) The protection and restoration of biodiversity and<br>ecosystems                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                | Enabling activities:<br>Turnover: 0%<br>CapEx: 0%                                                          |

## Page 45

<sup>31</sup> Template modified from Annex IV of the Disclosures Delegated Act to accommodate phased requirements regarding objectives 3-6, where disclosure of Taxonomy-eligibility (and not Taxonomy-alignment) is required until 1 January 2026.

## Page 46

### **Standard templates for the disclosure of nuclear and fossil gas related activities**

Template 1 – Nuclear and fossil gas related activities (Turnover-based and Capex-based KPIs):

| Row | Nuclear energy related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |     |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|
| 1.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development,<br>demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that<br>produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.                                                                                              | Yes |
| 2.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe<br>operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat,<br>including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as<br>hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available<br>technologies. | Yes |
| 3.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing<br>nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the<br>purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production<br>from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades.                             | Yes |
|     | Fossil gas related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |     |
| 4.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation<br>of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous<br>fuels.                                                                                                                                                                 | Yes |
| 5.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction,<br>refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation<br>facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                        | Yes |
| 6.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction,<br>refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool<br>using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                          | Yes |

### Template 2 - Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (denominator), Turnover-based KPI:

| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                    | CCM + CCA                                                                                         |        | Climate change mitigation (CCM) |        | Climate change adaptation (CCA) |    |
|-----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|---------------------------------|--------|---------------------------------|----|
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                        | Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts and as percentages) |        |                                 |        |                                 |    |
|     | Amount                                                                                                                                                                                 | %                                                                                                 | Amount | %                               | Amount | %                               |    |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                 | 0%     | 0                               | 0%     | 0                               | 0% |

## Page 47

| 7. | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6<br>above in the denominator of the applicable KPI | EUR 2,108m  | 4%   | EUR 2,108m  | 4%   | 0 | 0% |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|------|-------------|------|---|----|
| 8. | Total applicable KPI                                                                                                                                    | EUR 57,251m | 100% | EUR 57,251m | 100% | 0 | 0% |

Template 3 – Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator), Turnover-based KPI:

|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount and proportion (the information is to be<br>presented in monetary amounts and as percentages) |        |                                 |         |                                 |        |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|---------------------------------|---------|---------------------------------|--------|
| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                          | (CCM+CCA)                                                                                            |        | Climate change<br>mitigation    |         | Climate change<br>adaptation    |        |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount                                                                                               | %      | Amount                          | %       | Amount                          | %      |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6<br>above in the numerator of the applicable KPI                                                                        | EUR 2,108m                                                                                           | 4%     | EUR 2,108m                      | 4%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities in the numerator of the<br>applicable KPI                                                                                                             | EUR 2,108m                                                                                           | 4%     | EUR 2,108m                      | 4%      | 0                               | 0%     |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Proportion (the information is to be presented in<br>monetary amounts and as percentages)            |        |                                 |         |                                 |        |
| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                          | (CCM+CCA)                                                                                            |        | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation |         | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation |        |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                      | Amount | %                               | Amount  | %                               | Amount |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%     | 0                               | 0%      | 0                               | 0%     |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities not<br>referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator<br>of the applicable KPI                                         | EUR<br>23,379m                                                                                       | 41%    | EUR<br>23,379m                  | 41<br>% | 0                               | 0%     |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities in<br>the denominator of the applicable KPI                                                                                 | EUR<br>23,379m                                                                                       | 41%    | EUR<br>23,379m                  | 41<br>% | 0                               | 0%     |

## Page 48

#### Template 4 – Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities, Turnover-based KPI:

## Page 49

| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount         | Percentage |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|------------|
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities not referred<br>to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI                                                                                        | EUR<br>23,853m | 42%        |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI                                                                                                                             | EUR<br>23,853m | 42%        |

### Template 5 – Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities, Turnover-based KPI:

Template 2 – Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (denominator), CapEx-based KPI:

|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                 |           | Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented<br>in monetary amounts and as percentages) |                                    |    |                                    |    |  |
|-----|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----|------------------------------------|----|--|
| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                             | CCM + CCA |                                                                                                      | Climate change<br>mitigation (CCM) |    | Climate change<br>adaptation (CCA) |    |  |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Amount    | %                                                                                                    | Amount                             | %  | Amount                             | %  |  |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of<br>Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of<br>Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of<br>Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of<br>Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of<br>Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of                                                                                                   | 0         | 0%                                                                                                   | 0                                  | 0% | 0                                  | 0% |  |

## Page 50

|    | Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139<br>in the denominator of the applicable KPI                                                          |             |      |             |      |   |    |
|----|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|------|-------------|------|---|----|
| 7. | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6<br>above in the denominator of the applicable KPI | EUR 36m     | 0%   | EUR 36m     | 0%   | 0 | 0% |
| 8. | Total applicable KPI                                                                                                                                    | EUR 57,251m | 100% | EUR 57,251m | 100% | 0 | 0% |

Template 3 – Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator), CapEx-based KPI:

|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount and proportion (the information is to be<br>presented in monetary amounts and as percentages) |                              |                              |                              |                              |     |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|-----|
| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                          | (CCM+CCA)                                                                                            | Climate change<br>mitigation |                              | Climate change<br>adaptation |                              |     |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount                                                                                               | %                            | Amount                       | %                            | Amount                       | %   |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator<br>of the applicable KPI                                | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6<br>above in the numerator of the applicable KPI                                                                        | EUR 36m                                                                                              | 0%                           | EUR 36m                      | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned<br>economic activities in the numerator of the<br>applicable KPI                                                                                                             | EUR 36m                                                                                              | 0%                           | EUR 36m                      | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary<br>amounts and as percentages)            |                              |                              |                              |                              |     |
| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                          | (CCM+CCA)                                                                                            |                              | Climate change<br>mitigation |                              | Climate change<br>adaptation |     |
|     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount                                                                                               | %                            | Amount                       | %                            | Amount                       | %   |
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but<br>not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred<br>to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to<br>Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but<br>not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred<br>to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to<br>Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but<br>not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred<br>to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to<br>Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but<br>not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred<br>to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to<br>Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but<br>not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred<br>to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to<br>Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible<br>but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity<br>referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II<br>to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI | 0                                                                                                    | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%                           | 0                            | 0%  |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-<br>eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6<br>above in the denominator of the applicable<br>KPI                                     | EUR<br>25,439m                                                                                       | 44%                          | EUR<br>25,439m               | 44%                          | EUR<br>25,475m               | 44% |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy<br>eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activities in the denominator of the<br>applicable KPI                                                                              | EUR<br>25,439m                                                                                       | 44%                          | EUR<br>25,439m               | 44%                          | EUR<br>25,475m               | 44% |

## Page 51

#### Template 4 – Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities, CapEx-based KPI:

## Page 52

| Row | Economic activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Amount         | Percentage |
|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|------------|
| 1.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 2.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 3.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 4.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 5.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 6.  | Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is<br>taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated<br>Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI | 0              | 0%         |
| 7.  | Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities not referred<br>to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI                                                                                        | EUR<br>23,853m | 42%        |
| 8.  | Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities in the<br>denominator of the applicable KPI                                                                                                                             | EUR<br>23,853m | 42%        |

Template 5 – Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities, CapEx-based KPI:

## Page 53

# **Social Aspects**

One of PATRIZIA's sustainability goals is to be an employer of choice in the real assets sector, where everyone feels included, represented, and valued equitably. To achieve this goal, the Company focuses on internal social aspects such as equity, diversity, and inclusion (ED&I), employee development and health & wellbeing of employees. To remain compliant and achieve this goal, PATRIZIA also commits to fair Human Resource (HR) policies and procedures. These include leading ethical labour standards, such as human rights, anti-corruption and -fraud, whistleblowing and grievance procedures and privacy & data protection.

Contributing to an equitable, diverse, inclusive, and supportive environment is everyone's responsibility. The PATRIZIA ED&I Council acts as the advisory board for all ED&I initiatives across PATRIZIA and provides governance on ED&I priorities, programmes, actions, and metrics. The PATRIZIA ED&I Council is sponsored by the Executive Committee, supported by the HR Department, and overseen by the PATRIZIA Board of Directors.

The PATRIZIA Foundation reinforces the commitment to social aspects. The Foundation aims to improve the prospects of children and young people across the globe, by collaborating with local communities and partners to ensure access to education, healthcare, and welfare. Furthermore, PATRIZIA's impact investing strategy aims to create sustainable communities by providing affordable homes, including social housing, and additional social infrastructure, such as public facilities such as libraries, day care centres and healthcare facilities, to underserved communities in around 25 locations in and around major European cities.

# **Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)**

Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion are a strategic priority and instrumental in achieving PATRIZIA's business strategy. An equitable, diverse and inclusive workplace makes teams more effective in delivering top performance and long-term sustainable outcomes. Acting responsibly has always been an important part of how we do business at PATRIZIA. Since 2022 PATRIZIA has committed to achieving the following strategic milestones to proactively embed ED&I into the company culture:

#### **ED&I Milestones**

| 2022 | Educate: Raise collective understanding of ED&I and connect people to the imperative.                   |
|------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2023 | Benchmark: Strengthen position through advanced data collection and upgrades to policies and practices. |
| 2024 | Mark Progress: Capture and celebrate case studies for return on effort.                                 |

The 2022 milestone was reached with 17 virtual and in person training sessions on ED&I being conducted, which improved the employee dialogue and engagement. This continued in 2023, with over 900 employees attending the more than 30 ESG trainings held, this includes 21 trainings on ED&I topics.

The milestone in 2023 was attained with the ED&I Strategy Statement being published and the collection of data through a global Employee Engagement Survey. The survey served as a substantial method of gathering internal data and soliciting feedback from all employees. It presents a chance for management to hear about PATRIZIA's company culture from an employee's perspective, on its strengths, and areas in which adjustments are necessary to reach future objectives. The survey provides valuable insights on where to focus for the year 2024. The survey had an overall response rate of 88% and concentrated on topics such as Company Confidence, Leadership and Management. The results were published in early 2024.

PATRIZIA's ED&I Council is working on continuously improving the ED&I approach and practices. Supported by the HR team, the Council reflects PATRIZIA's diverse employee community and strives to create a culture where everyone feels included, represented, and valued equitably.

To support the ED&I strategy, PATRIZIA has set diversity targets that are measurable and achievable. Progress against the targets is measured at least once a year and reported to the PATRIZIA Executive Committee and Board of Directors. In 2023, PATRIZIA updated these targets. Management has set a target of 29% for the share of women on its Board of Directors (previously 25% to be achieved until 30 June 2024) and a respective target of 25% for the Executive Directors (previously 25% for the Management Board in the AG legal form to be achieved until 30 June 2024) as well as the Executive Committee excluding the Executive Directors, to be achieved by 31 December 2028 (defined as first management level below the Executive Directors). PATRIZIA aims to increase the share of women in the second management level below the Executive Directors, now defined per job title as (Senior) Managing Directors and Managing Directors to 30% by 31 December 2028**.**
