## Page 11

Supervisory Board, the Committee held several meetings - including extraordinary meetings - to discuss the CEO succession and proposed to the Supervisory Board the appointment of Kay Wolf. The Committee also met to determine further training topics for the Supervisory Board in the Financial Year 2023 and to prepare pbb's Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2023. It also disussed regularly the current status of the bank's strategic initiatives and projects.

The Audit and Digitalisation Committee – comprising Gertraud Dirscherl, Dr Günther Bräunig (member until 25 May 2023), Dr Louis Hagen (member since 25 May 2023), Dr Thomas Duhnkrack (member until 15 November 2023 and Hanns-Peter Storr – held a total of five regular meetings.

During these meetings, the Committee reviewed and discussed the Annual Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Statements for 2022, the interim reports (or interim statements) for 2023, the reports by Internal Audit and external auditors on internal and external audit findings, as well as the audit report under section 89 (1) of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – "WpHG"). In advance, the Committee also dealt with the results of the early audits of the business organisation and lending business as well as money laundering, including the key audit matters. The Committee also addressed the mandate of the external auditor (Deloitte) and its audit plan for the 2023 financial year. Furthermore, the Committee satisfied itself as to the independence of the external auditor and recommended that the Supervisory Board propose to the Annual Gen-eral Meeting to elect Deloitte as the external auditor for the 2023 financial year. In addition, the Committee discussed the impact of current regulatory issues with the Management Board and was informed about the development of ongoing audits. Further-more, regular reports were received on the internal control system and the monitoring of key controls implemented, current litiga-tion, compliance issues, data protection and IT security, special accounting issues, the results of external audits, as well as the audit plan established by Internal Audit and its implementation. Further discussions took place in two meetings with the Digital Advisory Board on the status of digitalisation measures and initiatives at the Bank.

The Risk Management and Liquidity Strategy Committee convened for five ordinary meetings. In addition, credit exposures requiring Supervisory Board approval were discussed, usually during monthly conference calls. Its members were Hanns-Peter Storr (Chairman), Dr Günther Bräunig (Member until 25 May 2023), Dr Louis Hagen (Member since 25 May 2023), Gertraud Dir-scherl and Prof. Kerstin Hennig.

At its regular meetings, the Committee supported the Supervisory Board's monitoring of risk and liquidity management; it re-viewed the Management Board's risk reporting and was involved in the credit approval process to the extent laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The Committee also regularly discussed new business developments as well as the liquidity and funding status and syndication business. During 2023, the Committee also discussed reports on sub-portfolios (including development financings); it dealt with specific loan loss allowances, the reporting of own funds in accordance with the German Solvency Regulation, country limits and asset/liability management. Moreover, the Committee held intensive discussions on the internal rating models (IRBA models), findings of the audit of the annual financial statements and the supervisory credit audits, updates to the business and risk strategy as well as developments on the real estate markets expected in the medium term. Furthermore, it focused on selected special topics such as ESG risk, business continuity management, UK and US market development and portfolio, further development of the ICAAP risk architecture, the results of the ECB's 2023 stress test and credit spread risk in the banking book. It also received updates on the appropriateness of the remuneration system.

In addition, the Committee addressed individual credit exposures on numerous occasions, usually in the form of monthly con-ference calls. These related to new business, regular re-submissions and approvals for change applications required to be submitted under the Committee's Rules of Procedure.

The Remuneration Committee – comprising Dr Günther Bräunig (Chairman until 25 May 2023), Dr Louis Hagen (Chairman since 25 May 2023), Gertraud Dirscherl, Susanne Klöß-Braekler and Heike Theißing – held five regular meetings during 2023.

The Committee discussed remuneration reports, variable remuneration for the 2022 financial year, target achievements of the Management Board members, as well as the variable remuneration plan 2023 for the Management Board. Furthermore, the Com-mittee prepared the approval of the determination of risk-taker functions, the determination of parameters for risk-adjusted per-formance measurement at Bank level, as well as the decision on the contractual parameters for the appointment of Kay Wolf to the Supervisory Board. Other key focuses of its meetings were the Bank's remunera

## Page 12

tion scheme, including its assessment of appropriateness, as well as the extension of the Remuneration Officer's term of office.

Individual members' attendance at meetings is shown in the table below. All regular meetings of the Supervisory Board and the individual committees were held as face-to-face meetings in the 2023 financial year, while the option to participate online was also offered and – to some extent – utilised ("hybrid meeting").

| Supervisory Board of pbb in 2023                                                  |                                                                                                                                                    |                                                               | Committee function and meeting attendence              |                                               |                                               |                                                                |                                              |                                   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Name<br>place of residence<br>initial appointment                                 | Principal activity                                                                                                                                 | Supervisory<br>Board<br>function and<br>meeting<br>attendence | Attendence<br>rate<br>Supervisory<br>Board<br>meetings | Executive<br>and Nomi-<br>nation<br>Committee | Audit and<br>Digitalisati-<br>on<br>Committee | Risk Man-<br>agement<br>and Liquidity<br>Strategy<br>Committee | Remune-<br>ration<br>Committee               | Attendence<br>rate Com-<br>mitees |
| Dr Günther Bräunig<br>Frankfurt/Main, Germany<br>14 August 2009                   | Management consultant<br>and former Chairman of<br>the Management Board of<br>KfW                                                                  | Chairman<br>5 of 5<br>(until 25 May<br>2023)                  | 100%                                                   | Chairman<br>5 of 5<br>(until 25<br>May 2023)  | Member<br>3 of 3<br>(until 25<br>May 2023)    | Member<br>2 of 3<br>(until 25<br>May 2023)                     | Chairman<br>3 of 3<br>(until 25<br>May 2023) | 93%                               |
| Dr Louis Hagen<br>Starnberg, Germany<br>25 May 2023                               | Management consultant<br>and former Chairman of<br>the Management Board of<br>Münchner Hypotheken-<br>bank                                         | Chairman<br>5 of 5<br>(since 25 May<br>2023)                  | 100%                                                   | Chairman<br>4 of 4<br>(since 25<br>May 2023)  | Chairman<br>2 of 2<br>(since 25<br>May 2023)  | Member<br>2 of 2<br>(since 25<br>May 2023)                     | Chairman<br>2 of 2<br>(since 25<br>May 2023) | 100%                              |
| Hanns-Peter Storr<br>Schwäbisch Gmünd, Ger-<br>many<br>12 May 2021                | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                       | Deputy<br>Chairman<br>10 of 10                                | 100%                                                   |                                               | Member<br>5 of 5                              | Member<br>5 of 5                                               |                                              | 100%                              |
| Karim Bohn1)<br>Augsburg, Germany<br>30 November 2023                             | CFO Canyon Bicycles<br>GmbH                                                                                                                        | Member<br>n/a                                                 | n/a                                                    |                                               |                                               |                                                                |                                              |                                   |
| Gertraud Dirscherl<br>Landshut, Germany<br>2 Februrary 2022                       | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                       | Member<br>10 of 10                                            | 100%                                                   |                                               | Member<br>5 of 5                              | Member<br>5 of 5                                               | Member<br>5 of 5                             | 100%                              |
| Dr Thomas Duhnkrack<br>Kronberg/Taunus, Germany<br>21 July 2015                   | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                       | Member<br>9 of 9                                              | 100%                                                   | Member<br>9 of 9                              | Member<br>5 of 5                              |                                                                |                                              | 100%                              |
| Prof Dr Kerstin Hennig<br>Schmitten, Germany<br>19 July 2022                      | University professor at<br>EBS University<br>(until 30.9.2023)<br>Professor at Frankfurt<br>School of Finance &<br>Management<br>(since 1.11.2023) | Member<br>10 of 10                                            | 100%                                                   |                                               |                                               | Member<br>5 of 5                                               |                                              | 100%                              |
| Susanne Klöß-Braekler<br>Munich, Germany<br>12 May 2021                           | Independent supervisory<br>and advisory board<br>member, Investor, Senior<br>Advisor                                                               | Member<br>9 of 9                                              | 100%                                                   | Member<br>9 of 9                              |                                               |                                                                | Member<br>5 of 5                             | 100%                              |
| Georg Kordick<br>Poing, Germany<br>(Employee representative)<br>22 Februrary 1990 | Bank employee                                                                                                                                      | Member<br>10 of 10                                            | 100%                                                   |                                               |                                               |                                                                |                                              |                                   |
| Olaf Neumann<br>Munich, Germany<br>12 May 2021                                    | Bank employee                                                                                                                                      | Member<br>8 of 8                                              | 100%                                                   |                                               |                                               |                                                                |                                              |                                   |
| Heike Theißing<br>Munich, Germany<br>(Employee representative)<br>7 July 2011     | Bank employee                                                                                                                                      | Member<br>8 of 8                                              | 100%                                                   |                                               |                                               |                                                                | Member<br>5 of 5                             | 100%                              |

1) Following the appointment of Karim Bohn with effect from 30 November 2023, no meetings of the Supervisory Board or its committees were held in the past financial year.

## Page 13

# **TRAINING AND CONTINUOUS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT**

The members of the Supervisory Board assumed responsibility for undertaking any training or professional development measures necessary to fulfil their duties. The Company supported them to the extent required in this regard. Regular training sessions were held ahead of the regular Supervisory Board meetings in the form of presentations by external speakers. In 2023, members of the Supervisory Board addressed the topics of cyber risk, digital transformation, EU taxonomy as well as ESG and good Corporate Governance. This regular training programme for the entire Supervisory Board will be continued.

# **ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS**

Deloitte, the auditors of the annual and consolidated financial statements elected by the Annual General Meeting, audited the annual and consolidated financial statements of pbb as at 31 December 2023, including the consolidated management report, and issued them with unqualified audit opinions. The Bank has published the mandatory Non-financial Statement in a separate Non-financial Report. As part of its review obligation, the Supervisory Board availed itself of the option of a content-related external audit of the Non-financial Statement. In this context, Deloitte subjected the Nonfinancial Report to a limited assurance review in accordance with ISAE 3000.

Deloitte has submitted a declaration of its independence to the Supervisory Board. The financial statements documents and audit reports were submitted to all Supervisory Board members in good time. The Audit and Digitalisation Committee ad-dressed the financial statements documents at its meeting on 21 March 2024. The annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements, the combined management report as well as audit reports were discussed in detail with the Management Board and representatives of the external auditors. Following its own review, the Supervisory Board did not raise any objec-tions to the audit results submitted by the external auditors. In the accounts review meeting held on 22 March 2024, the Supervi-sory Board approved the consolidated financial statements prepared by the Management Board, and the annual financial state-ments were adopted.

The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Management Board and all of pbb's employees for their exceptional personal commitment and successful work during the 2023 financial year.

For the Supervisory Board

Dr Louis Hagen Chairman

## Page 14

# Fundamental Information about the Group Combined Management Report

The management report of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG ("pbb") and the Group management report have been combined in accordance with section 315 (5) in conjunction with section 298 (2) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch – "HGB"). Information provided in this combined management report relates – if not explicitly stated otherwise – both to pbb Group as a whole, and to pbb as an individual entity. The report also includes information referring solely to the parent entity pbb (with explanations on the basis of the German Commercial Code (HGB)). The annual report of pbb in accordance with the HGB and the combined management report are published simultaneously in the German Company Register (Unternehmensregister).

# **GROUP STRUCTURE**

pbb Group consists primarily of the parent entity pbb. In addition, pbb has subsidiaries and investments, which are presented in the Note "pbb shareholdings".

The headquarters are located in Munich/Garching. pbb also has offices at four locations across Germany (Eschborn, Dusseldorf, Hamburg and Berlin). Outside Germany, pbb has branch offices in London, Madrid, Paris and Stockholm, as well as a representative office in New York. pbb Group distributes the vast majority of its international financing activities from these locations.

# **BUSINESS MODEL**

In the financial year 2023, pbb Group's strategic business segment was Commercial Real Estate Finance (REF), with a focus on Pfandbrief-eligible business. The Public Investment Finance (PIF) business segment was combined with the Value Portfolio (VP) segment at the beginning of 2023 to form a non-strategic "Non-Core" (NC) segment. The business model was expanded to include the new Real Estate Investment Management division pbb invest. Geographically, the focus is on Europe and the US. pbb's significant European core markets are Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries, selected Central and Eastern European countries, Spain and the Benelux countries. In the US, pbb currently focuses on the metropolitan regions of New York, Washington D.C., Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Seattle and Los Angeles.

Lending is pbb's core business: here, pbb plays an important role in supplying credit to the property industry. In the course of further anchoring ESG in the business model and in portfolio management, pbb has further intensified the financing of properties rated as "green". Accordingly, the bank will further expand green loan eligibility in new business. In particular, pbb is targeting primary client business and syndications. Besides traditional financing solutions tailored to clients' needs, pbb offers its clients derivative products for hedging risks associated with lending. pbb does not maintain a trading book for securities and derivatives portfolios held to realise short-term gains.

In order to not only offer green financing, but also to support clients in the development of their green transformation, pbb has entered into a cooperation with Groß & Partner and founded Eco Estate GmbH. Eco Estate GmbH offers green consulting and will work with clients to develop possible solutions for the transformation in the areas of ESG, smart building and taxonomy certification, and advise them on implementation options. To further embed ESG in the business model, pbb developed a sustainability roadmap, which represents pbb's ESG framework.

In the lending business, pbb either acts as the sole lender or, particularly for large-volume transactions, cooperates with financing partners from its wide networtk of banks and other partners, including insurance companies, pension funds and private equity firms. In this syndicate business, when acting as an arranger, pbb takes over the complete coordination

## Page 15

between the syndicate members and the borrower or, in the role of an agent in connection with the management of syndicated loans.

In addition, pbb acts as an underwriter, providing financing to borrowers as a sole lender or together with other market participants, and then selling parts of these loans to interested parties within the scope of syndications.

As part of an expansion of its business model, pbb established the new division pbb invest in 2023. The objective of pbb invest is to offer property investment products (both real estate funds and real estate debt funds) with sustainable features for institutional investors. The focus is on applying and expanding pbb's core competences and networking in the commercial real estate sector when launching own investment products for distribution to (semi-)professional investors. This leads to a diversification of revenues towards a (largely) balance sheet-independent generation of provision income. The new division is intended to increase growth potential and profitability while strictly adhering to cost targets.

For its London branch, pbb has submitted an application for authorisation to the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) after the orderly Brexit and the subsequent transition period, in order to be able to continue doing business in the United Kingdom even after the expiry of the so-called "Temporary Permissions Regime". Authorisation was granted by the FCA in mid-2023.

In March 2023, pbb decided to focus on its core business of Commercial Real Estate Finance as part of its Strategy 2026, and subsequently to withdraw from the public investment finance business. CAPVERIANT GmbH discontinued its operating activities in June 2023. On 27 June 2023, the Management Board of pbb resolved to merge CAPVERIANT GmbH into pbb. Legally, CAPVERIANT was merged into pbb with retroactive effect from 1 January 2023 and thus ceased to exist. The technical platform was discontinued and the customer base was transferred to the remaining provider in the market.

# **Strategic portfolio**

In Commercial Real Estate Finance, the product range is primarily aimed at professional real estate investors (both national and international) such as real estate companies, institutional investors, real estate funds as well as - particularly in Germany - SMEs and clients with a regional focus on Germany. pbb targets complex transactions with medium-sized to large financing volumes. Financed objects mainly involve office buildings, properties for residential use, retail properties, logistics properties and hotels. Other property types are financed as portfolio additions. pbb once again considers financing retirement and nursing homes in Germany. The regional focus is on the core markets eligible for inclusion in Pfandbrief cover in Europe and certain US metropolitan area, where pbb offers both local and cross-border financing expertise. A majority of the loans granted are investment loans, i.e. loans for the acquisition or follow-up financing of existing properties with existing cash flows. Development financings (including for residential real estate in Germany) are of complementary siginificance.

Due to the current market situation, pbb is taking a very selective approach to new business. Letting and construction risks are only taken to a very limited extent.

# **Non-Core segment (NC)**

In addition to the portfolio of the strategic business segment, pbb has a non-strategic portfolio, the so-called NC segment. In this portfolio, the previously strategic PIF portfolio was merged with the VP portfolio, which consisted almost entirely of non-dedicated financing to the public sector (budget financing). The NC segment thus combines all nonstrategic public sector financing as well as transactions carried out in the past with public private partnerships and export credit financing. pbb does not enter into any new business in this segment. The portfolio generates interest income and matures in accordance with the contractual maturities. Where economically reasonable and viable, pbb also utilises potential for a faster reduction by means of portfolio or individual sales.

## Page 16

#### **Consolidation & Adjustments (C&A)**

IFRS 8.28 stipulates that an entity shall provide reconciliations of the reportable segments' profit/loss, assets/liabilities etc. to the respective items in the consolidated financial statements. At pbb Group, this reconciliation is carried out in the C&A column and does not comprise any operating business. For example, this column includes consolidation items arising from the elimination of intra-group relationships between pbb and its fully-consolidated subsidiary.

#### **Funding**

Loans are largely funded using matching maturities, and primarily via the Pfandbrief market, supplemented with unsecured funding. Issues are regularly placed on the international capital markets in benchmark format, and via private placements. pbb structures private placements as bearer or registered securities in accordance with investors' requirements, or in the form of fixed-rate deposits – meaning that term and interest structure can be negotiated on an individual basis. In line with the lending business, issues are predominantly conducted in euros; pbb prefers to refinance any lending in the US, the UK and Sweden directly in the respective currency. Foreign exchange swaps are thus avoided as far as possible, reducing the need for excess Pfandbrief cover to be funded on an unhedged basis.

pbb is one of the largest issuers of Mortgage Pfandbriefe measured by outstanding volume (source: Association of German Pfandbrief Banks – 2023).

The main vehicles used for unsecured funding are promissory notes, bearer bonds, and fixed-rate deposits as seniorpreferred issues.

Banks, funds and insurance companies, but also central banks and government funds, are investors in debt instruments. In this segment, pbb's particular strategic focus is on developing its funding franchise, with the objective of further diversifying and expanding its investor base. The Bank has been issuing green bonds since the beginning of 2021, offering an investment opportunity for investors applying sustainability requirements.

pbb is stepping up its deposit business with private investors in Germany. The online platform pbb direkt (www.pbbdirekt.com) and third-party providers offer overnight and fixed-term deposits in euros and US dollars. This line of business has now grown to € 6.6 billion in the portfolio and is increasingly substituting unsecured capital market funding.

In the measures provided by the European Central Bank (ECB), pbb participated in the Targeted Longer Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO III) in 2020 and 2021 due to the attractive conditions. At the end of June 2023, a further tranche of € 1.8 billion of the TLTRO III liability was repaid. This leaves only a residual liability of € 0.9 billion until 2024.

#### **COMPETITIVE POSITION**

pbb possesses a strong local presence and expertise across the entire process chain in its core markets, by means of real estate experts, property law specialists and financing experts, up to the management of loan exposures. pbb also actively deploys this local expertise to support clients with international transactions, with key decisions always being taken by the responsible Group level units at pbb's Garching headquarters near Munich.

## Page 17

#### **STRATEGIC FOCUS**

pbb Group's business strategy focuses on continued, value-creating business success. The assessment and appropriate pricing of risk in the lending business on the one hand, and access to the refinancing markets with adequate conditions on the other, are decisive for business success. Another key success factor is the management of the existing portfolio with the aim of recognising changing risks at an early stage and mitigating them with suitable measures.

For the financial years 2024 to 2026, pbb's Management Board has commited itself to further solidify pbb Group's profitability. In terms of earnings, the strategic focus is particularly on the business activities in the core REF segment described above. By consistently focussing on commercial real estate finance, pbb launched further strategic initiatives in 2023 in order to increasingly diversify its business model over the coming years, and to lay the foundations for future earnings growth and higher profitability. The cornerstone of both the core business and new strategic initiatives remains pbb's risk-conservative approach, based on pbb's expertise in its markets.

As part of the strategy process, pbb reviews, plans and implements measures to further develop its core business on the basis of its expertise, and to be prepared for existing and expected challenges. The common objective of the strategic measures is to achieve a sustainable strengthening of the business model with a positive contribution to profitability.

The specific strategic initiatives include the measures described below.

In terms of earnings, the strategic focus is particularly on the business activities in the core business described above and increasing their profitability. By expanding the product range, profitability is to be further increased while strictly adhering to cost targets and the desired risk profile. More green loans are to be granted, with an unchanged "focus-oncore" strategy. pbb continues to concentrate on properties in good locations with stable cash flows and low re-letting risks. We also ensure investors are professional and crisis-experienced.

pbb Group aims to become the leading partner for financing the green transformation of the Commercial Real Estate sector in Europe. Overall, pbb has identified five overarching sustainability objectives. Two of the objectives relate to pbb's business model, specifically the positioning as a transformation (re-)financier in the property industry and sustainable (re-)financing overall. Other overarching objectives relate to sustainable operational ecology and the fulfilment of regulatory requirements. In addition, holistic transparency and communication form the central basis of pbb Group's economic success and its values. pbb is expressly committed to the Paris Climate Agreement and the Sustainable Finance goals of the EU and the German Federal Government. For this reason, pbb Group is working to align its loan portfolios and business operations with the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. With the goal of a 1.5-degree climate alignment by 2050, pbb has set itself a fundamental long-term climate target, according to which it is strategically managed. Building on this, a long-term decarbonisation pathway for the REF portfolio and a climate management concept are being established. In addition, pbb is evaluating further objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and measures derived from it, which address further social sustainability aspects. Sustainable finance is defined as a central pillar of the holistic ESG strategy. The aim is to support the transformation of the property industry towards the general goal of climate neutrality by 2050. For pbb's long-term ESG positioning, a sustainability roadmap is being developed, which represents pbb's ESG framework. It comprises various monothematic compasses, such as the climate or social compass, which define the vision, objectives and their operationalisation. In future, ESG is to be viewed more quantitatively. Furthermore, pbb is developing a holistic climate management system to control emissions from business operations and from pbb's portfolio.

In order to fulfil pbb Group's claim to be a transformation partner and to meet the expectations of its stakeholders, pbb Group also deals intensively with the issue of sustainability within its own company. As part of a materiality analysis, the most relevant sustainability topics were identified and corresponding objectives and measures were derived. These are updated regularly. For example, the Group's own ecological footprint, i.e. in particular the CO2 emissions resulting from its own business processes, is to be permanently and continuously reduced. In addition to sector-specific aspects, such as pbb Group's role as a transformation companion and the sustainable transformation of the business portfolio and business operations, pbb Group pays particular attention to strong corporate governance, social issues and its employees.

## Page 18

As a company with global operations, pbb Group is fully committed to respecting, upholding and strengthening human rights and to preventing abuses thereof. In addition to the Code of Conduct, a human rights guideline sets out a corresponding framework. pbb has been a member of the UN Global Compact since February 2022, committing itself to the ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment protection and anti-corruption. As part of this commitment, pbb published a progress report for the first time in April 2022.

As a further strategic measure, pbb Group aims to increase its commission income. The first step in this direction has already been taken with the new pbb invest division. The aim is to offer property investment products with sustainable features for (semi-)professional investors. pbb invest focuses on two product series: (i) the real estate fund comprises direct property investments, initially in Germany, and sales to (semi-) professional investors in Germany, and (ii) the real estate debt fund comprises investments in commercial property financing, initially with a focus on borrowers in Europe, and sales to (semi-) professional investors in Germany. For the first real estate fund, pbb is cooperating with Universal Investment and for the first real estate debt fund with Hauck Aufhäuser Lampe, both of which serve pbb invest as investment management company/alternative investment fund manager (IMC/AIFM) for the fund business. In the future, the acquisition of a separate IMC/AIFM licence will be considered, which would require a separate legal entity (subsidiary). pbb is also examining whether possible options for inorganic growth can be considered.

In order to always have sufficient liquidity, even in the current interest rate environment, pbb Group diversifies its funding via the deposit-taking business of "pbb direkt". pbb plans to increase its deposit-taking business to a volume of € 8 billion by the end of 2026, in order to further diversify its funding base in a cost-efficient manner. The portfolio of deposits from private clients has almost doubled since the beginning of 2021 and amounted to € 6.6 billion as of 31 December 2023. To further support growth, pbb is cooperating with Raisin and Check24 in the deposit-taking business for private clients. Cooperations of this kind complement pbb's activities and are to be further expanded in the future.

In addition to the earnings side, pbb Group is also focussing on increasing its efficiency. To this end, pbb identified relevant cost drivers and further develops digitalisation. pbb has set itself the target of keeping the cost base stable, and thus bringing the cost-income ratio below 45% by the end of 2026. Around 60% of the targeted savings are to come from operating expenses and around 40% from personnel expenses. This corresponds to a gross headcount reduction of around 15% over the next three years, which is to be achieved in a socially responsible manner and by utilising the age structure.

The cost reduction measures are offset by technical and process improvements. For example, pbb's entire organisational structure was analysed for efficiency potential, and appropriate measures were derived. The greatest efficiency potential can be found in the lending process. Further process improvements were identified, such as the optimisation of committee structures for credit decisions, as well as potential redundancies between committees and cross-divisional service offerings in the credit process. In addition, pbb is also analysing the Corporate Centre functions for efficiency potential. The reorganisation of an integrated IT target picture is also being examined.

In addition to specific efficiency enhancement measures, digitalisation remains a strategic objective. For pbb, digitalisation means leveraging the potential of new technologies to focus on client needs and relationships, to improve existing processes, and to support the development of new products and services. This will expand pbb's business model by creating a digital organisation that leverages the advantages of agile methods. Having already achieved significant improvements in IT support in recent years, both through the use of the digital client portal and the start of implementation of the digitalisation of the lending process, pbb intends to continue to focus on continuous improvement through the digitalisation of further processes. pbb's objective is to optimise sub-processes based on standardisation and automation – also by using new technologies such as artificial intelligence or cloud services – and thus make them more efficient and customer-oriented. Together with pbb as a strategic partner, the software specialist for financial service providers, SAP Fioneer, is developing a digital credit workplace that is already being gradually introduced. The digital credit workplace supports the initiation and conclusion of new and the management of existing business in the front and back office while further optimising existing processes.

## Page 19

pbb continues to strive to be an attractive stock with above-average payout ratios. In doing so, it will maintain its current distribution policy for the time being. The distributions are based on the consolidated profit after taxes attributable to ordinary shareholders in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) less the AT1 coupon. Overall, distributions are made subject to or depending on economic justifiability, macroeconomic risks in general and industry-specific risks in particular (including ESG risks), existing and anticipatable regulatory requirements and demands as well as future growth and investment measures.

# **INTERNAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM**

pbb Group's internal management system is pursuing a sustainable enhancement in value of the Group considering aspects of risks and regulatory requirements. The key objective is to achieve a balanced risk/return ratio. Risks should be compatible with external and internal risk-bearing capacity guidelines generating an adequate return on capital.

Monitoring and stearing are based on a consistent and integrated key performance indicator system (KPI system). The KPI system comprises the dimensions of profitability, growth in the real estate finance portfolio, risk limitation and capital. Regular plan-actual comparisons and related analyses disclose the reasons for any deviations in the key performance indicators. Current market developments, such as the change on interest rate levels, are also displayed. In addition to strategic planning for the Bank as a whole, regular medium-term projections of profitability indicator and (stress) scenario forecasts ensure the management has a comprehensive overview of the future business development.

The following financial performance indicators have been defined:

- Profit before tax is a further financial key performance indicator. The aim is to increase it both by generating higher revenues and through strict cost discipline.
- Cost discipline and efficiency are monitored using the cost-income ratio, i.e. the ratio of general and administrative expenses and net income from write-downs and write-ups of non-financial assets to operating income.
- The notional amount of the funding in the Real Estate Finance (REF) segment is a significant factor influencing the future earning power and has therefore been redefined as an additional financial key performance indicator.
- The financing volume can be controlled, above all, by the volume of new business (including prolongations with maturities of more than one year), which also represent a financial key performance indicator. A present value approach is used for managing and calculating new business.
- pbb Group's capital adequacy process (ICAAP) is based on two approaches concerning risk-bearing capacity: the normative and the economic perspective. Whilst the normative perspective is aimed at the fulfilment of all capital-related legal requirements, supervisory demands and internal objectives, on an ongoing basis, the economic perspective covers all material risks which might threaten the institution's economic viability. Both perspectives are designed to supplement each other, safeguarding pbb Group's ability to survive. The prerequisites for evidencing risk-bearing capacity in the normative perspective are the ongoing compliance with minimum regulatory requirements over a medium-term horizon, plus evidence of adequate internal capital to cover material risks exceeding such minimum requirements. In the economic perspective, risk-bearing capacity is evidenced by sufficient internal capital being available to cover potential present-value losses. Details concerning the methodology used for analysing risk-bearing capacity, and the results obtained, are provided in the Risk and Opportunity Report.
- The CET1 ratio, a key management parameter, is determined on a regular basis; it is calculated by dividing Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) by risk-weighted assets (RWAs). In the reporting year the Advanced Internal Rating Based Approach (Advanced IRBA) was used to determine regulatory capital requirements for the far predominantly portion of the real estate portfolio and the credit risk standardised approach (CRSTA) for the remaining portfolio.

## Page 20

For pbb Group, sustainability in the sense of environmental, social and governance (ESG) means making a significant contribution to securing the long-term future through its actions – taking into account the consequences for all its stakeholders. pbb Group endeavours to combine long-term economic success and sustainability aspects in the best possible way. The aim is to create long-term benefits for society and the environment, while at the same time conserving natural resources.

pbb's Management Board and Supervisory Board regularly deal intensively with ESG issues. One basis for this is a system of key figures, which is continuously developed further. Regulatory and market developments are also taken into account. In the last two years, for example, the focus has been on determining the Green Asset Ratios (GAR), which will be published for the first time in the Non-financial Report for the 2023 financial year. However, from pbb Group's perspective, the GAR according to the EU taxonomy are not meaningful with regard to the actual share of environmentally sustainable assets, as there are already restrictions in terms of taxonomy-eligibility, depending on the size and capital market orientation of clients, among other things. No market practices have yet emerged for adjusted and self-defined quotas. Looking ahead, the reduction of CO2 appears to be emerging as an important cross-company objective. The pbb Group is currently developing a climate pathway with the aim of actively steering the REF portfolio towards CO2 reduction. pbb Group's climate pathway is geared towards limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, calculated from the pre-industrial age to the year 2050. The exact intermediate steps towards this goal are still being finalised.

As indicators such as GAR are not very meaningful, market practice has not yet developed for other indicators and shortterm interim targets still need to be set for the long-term goal of the CO2 climate path, the pbb Group has not yet defined any non-financial performance indicators within the meaning of GAS 20.105.

# **NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT**

Companies must assume responsibility for their actions in the environment in which they operate. The key principle of pbb Group's corporate responsibility philosophy is that of sustainability. This means long-term, responsible actions that take the consequences for all the company's stakeholders and for the environment into account.

pbb Group is convinced that sustainable and responsible business practices are an essential requirement for securing the future of the Company and increasing its value.

In the separate summarised non-financial report, which is not part of the combined management report, pbb Group provides more detailed information on the sustainability issues and aspects identified as material for the Company. This was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the CSR Directive Implementation Act and is also published both in the company register together with the summarised management report and on the company website (https://www.pfandbriefbank.com/fileadmin/user\_upload/downloads/investor\_relations/reports/2403\_NFB\_2023\_en.pdf). The non-financial report was not audited by the auditor, but was subject to a limited assurance engagement by Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in accordance with ISAE 3000.

## Page 21

# Report on Economic Position

#### **MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT**

Global economic growth has slowed in 2023. The International Monetary Fund is forecasting global economic growth of just 3.1% in 2023, compared to 3.5% in the previous year. Several factors have curbed the economic development. Some reflect the long-term consequences of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, such as higher energy prices. Others are more cyclical in nature. These include, for example, the effects of monetary policy tightening, which dampened consumption and investment, as well as the expiry of fiscal support measures. (Sources: IMF 2023, IMF 2024)

Different trends emerged between the national economies. The economic slowdown was more pronounced in industrialised countries than in emerging and developing countries. Overall, economic output in the industrialised countries grew by 1.6% in 2023 according to current estimates. Within the developed countries, the USA surprised positively with robust consumption and investment, whereas the economy in the Eurozone was disappointing. While gross domestic product (GDP) in the USA grew by 2.4% in 2023, it increased by just 0.6% in the Eurozone. (Sources: IMF 2023, IMF 2024, European Commission 2023)

In Germany, economic output fell by 0.3% in 2023, following an expansion of 1.8% in 2022. Despite the decline in inflation rates, continued high prices dampened economic activity. In addition, unfavourable financing conditions with rising interest rates and lower domestic and external demand influenced economic development in 2023 (source: Federal Statistical Office 2024)

The French economy expanded by an estimated 1.0% last year. At the beginning of the year, net exports fuelled French growth, while economic activity was dampened by domestic demand due to inflation still being above the ECB's target and high interest rates. As the year progressed, however, domestic demand became the main pillar of growth. (Source: European Commission 2023)

Spain is expected to see growth of 2.4% in 2023. In addition to strong domestic demand, foreign demand, including the large tourism sector, is a key factor behind the strong recovery in economic activity. For Italy, an increase of 0.7% is expected in 2023. (Source: European Commission 2023)

GDP is forecast to rise by 0.6% in the UK in 2023. While private consumption and capital investment were still boosting growth at the start of the year, momentum slowed significantly in the second half of the year. High prices and interest rates had an impact on consumer sentiment, while fiscal policy became increasingly restrictive. (Source: European Commission 2023)

Growth momentum in pbb's core markets in Northern and Eastern Europe also slowed significantly in 2023. In Sweden, gross domestic product contracted by 0.5%, while the Polish economy expanded by just 0.4%. High interest rates and energy prices weighed on the Swedish economy, particularly on private households and the construction sector, due to high levels of debt and overvalued house prices. A cooling of the labour market further curbed domestic demand. Polish growth was also dampened by the decline in private consumption, but also by a negative contribution from inventories. (Source: European Commission 2023)

Labour markets performed well in many regions in 2023, despite the slowdown in economic growth. The unemployment rate in the Eurozone was 6.6% in 2023, down 0.2 percentage points on the previous year. In Germany, the unemployment rate remained at an average of 3.1% during this period. In France, unemployment fell slightly from 7.3% in 2022 to 7.2% one year later, while in Spain it fell more sharply from 12.9% to 12.1% during this period. In Sweden, however, the unemployment rate increased from 7.5% to an average of 7.6% in 2023 due to the weak economic development. An increase from 3.7% to 4.3% in 2023 was also observed in the United Kingdom. In the USA, there was also a small increase from 3.6% to 3.7% during this period. (Source: European Commission 2023)

## Page 22

In the US, inflation stood at 3.4% in December 2023, after being over 6% at the beginning of the year. In the Eurozone, prices rose by 2.9% at the end of the year. This compares with 9.2% twelve months earlier. At the same time, the core rate of inflation in the Eurozone remained elevated at 3.4% in December, highlighting the fact that the recent easing in the overall rate is primarily due to falling energy prices. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics 2024, Eurostat 2024)

The ECB raised its key interest rates significantly in several steps by 200 basis points by September 2023 in order to combat persistently high inflation. The deposit rate thus rose from 2% at the beginning of the year to 4% in September. The ECB then left interest rates constant. Since March 2023, the ECB has also been reducing its holdings from the asset purchase programme (APP) by no longer reinvesting the securities in full when they mature. Since July 2023, no reinvestments of maturities have even been made. In the US, the Federal Reserve (Fed) raised the key interest rate in several steps to a range of 5.25% to 5.50% in July and left interest rates at this level until the end of the year. The Fed has also been reducing its balance sheet since June 2022 by only partially reinvesting maturing securities. (Sources: Bloomberg, ECB 2024, Fed 2023)

In addition to the persistently tense geopolitical situation, interest rates on the financial markets were influenced in particular by the global inflation trend and the responding monetary policy. Interest rates on 10-year government bonds in the USA reached around 5% in the autumn, while interest rates on German government bonds climbed close to 3%. Towards the end of the year, interest rates on US and German government bonds fell back below 4% and 2%, respectively, driven by the prospect of a somewhat looser monetary policy in the new year. (Source: Bloomberg)

On the currency markets, the US dollar lost 3.4% against the euro over the course of the year. Much of the weakness occurred in the fourth quarter, when market expectations increased that the Fed would loosen its policy in 2024. By contrast, the British pound gained 2.1% against the European currency after losing a lot of ground in the previous year. (Source: Bloomberg)

# **SECTOR-SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENT**

# **Overall Situation in the Banking Sector**

The Eurozone financial sector proved to be resilient last year. Silicon Valley Bank, a US regional bank, got into difficulties in March 2023 due to serious and specific deficits in the management of its interest rate and liquidity risks. Other US regional banks with similar business models and the Swiss bank Credit Suisse were quickly hit by turbulence. However, contagion effects on the financial system remained manageable apart from temporary price losses at individual institutions and the turbulence has since subsided. However, the risks to financial stability remain elevated. Attention has shifted to the impact of tighter financial and credit conditions and the weak economic outlook on borrowers' debt servicing ability, the ongoing correction in the real estate markets and the resulting risks for banks. (Sources: Bundesbank 2023, ECB 2023)

In an environment of tighter financing conditions and increased uncertainty, commercial real estate (CRE) prices have continued to fall, with subdued market activity making price discovery more difficult. The impact of higher interest rates has been exacerbated by structurally lower demand for some CRE assets after the pandemic, such as office property. This combination of economic and structural challenges has resulted in real estate firms experiencing significant rating downgrades over the past year. Conditions were particularly difficult for property developers, who are faced with falling sales prices, shrinking order books and rising input costs. For these reasons, lenders are increasingly taking loss provisions on loans to property owners and developers, particularly for those in US CRE. This in turn leads to declining profits and rating downgrades for some lending banks. (Source: ECB 2023, Bloomberg)

In 2023, there was a further increase in the return on equity of banks in the eurozone to 10.0% in the third quarter. Bank profitability has so far benefited from higher interest rates, but the deterioration in asset quality, the decline in lending volumes and higher refinancing costs will create headwinds. (Sources: ECB 2023, ECB 2024, Sample: Significant Institutions)

## Page 23

#### **Commercial Real Estate Finance**

Investment volumes continued to decline in all of pbb's markets last year, for example by 45% in the USA. In addition to the interest rate environment, the weak letting market had a negative impact here. As a result of the trend towards mobile working, many companies were reluctant to look for office space, which led to higher vacancy rates. In total, these two effects caused the capital values of office properties in the USA to fall by around 6%. Office buildings in Manhattan lost around 20% in value. Older properties in secondary locations were more affected by this than new buildings.

The letting markets in Europe continue to be characterised by the changing world of work. Accordingly, letting performance declined and vacancy rates rose, which also affected older office buildings in secondary locations in particular. However, due to the low supply of new buildings and modern buildings in good and very good locations, prime rents remained stable to positive in the past year. The highest growth rates were achieved in Germany.

2023 was also a challenging year on the European investment markets, with hardly any positive news to report in the first three quarters. As in the USA, banks in Europe were unable to offer financing conditions that would enable investors to acquire properties at the required purchase prices. As a result, project developers were also unable to realise their planned sales prices, which put additional pressure on their economic situation. Many projects had already come under pressure due to the rise in construction costs and could no longer be finalised.

Overall, the investment market in Europe was extremely subdued. However, the final quarter saw rising investment turnover in the Northern European countries and in Southern Europe. Despite this, the prime yield for office property across Europe rose by around 90 basis points over the course of the year. As a result, European office buildings lost an average of 15% in value.

(Sources: PMA, JLL, CBRE, RealCapitalAnalytics)

#### **Non-Core**

Demand for public investment financing continued to grow slightly in 2023. According to data from the European Commission, the share of public investment as a percentage of gross domestic product in the EU rose from 3.2% in 2022 to 3.3% in 2023. This exceeds the levels reached in the years 2015 to 2019 (2.9%) and 2010 to 2014 (3.2%). Public investment expenditure developed differently within the EU. While the level remained unchanged in Germany and Austria (2.6% and 3.4% of GDP) and fell slightly in Spain from 2.8% to 2.7%, France was able to increase its share from 3.7% to 3.9%. Outside the EU, public investment in the UK rose from 3.1% to 3.3% of GDP.

General government finances continued to improve in 2023. The aggregate budget deficit in the EU fell slightly from 3.3% of GDP in the previous year to 3.2%, while debt fell from 84.8% of GDP in 2022 to 83.1%. The budget situation benefited from the fact that pandemic-related support measures expired completely and the costs of energy-related measures decreased. This outweighed the negative effects of the subdued economic situation and higher interest expenses. (Source: European Commission)

In 2023, the risk premiums (credit spreads) of the European periphery largely moved sideways, while a spread tightening was observed in Italy over the course of the year. A similar trend was observed with regard to yield levels. From January to September, yields on Italian, Spanish and Portuguese bonds remained within a narrow range, only to fall significantly by the end of the year. The background to this movement was the growing expectation that the ECB would switch to an interest rate cut in spring 2024. (Source: Bloomberg).

## Page 24

#### **Funding Markets**

In 2023, the refinancing markets continued to be dominated by the war in Ukraine and the sharp rise in inflation and its containment. In the fight against inflation, the ECB continued the course of interest rate hikes it began in 2022. After a total of ten interest rate hikes in a row, it paused interest rates in October 2023 after inflation had fallen noticeably. At the same time, the ECB gradually withdrew from its purchase programmes. The reduced demand from central banks combined with a high volume of issues resulted in significant widening of spreads on the covered bond market. Repricing in the covered bond segment and the turnaround in interest rates increased the attractiveness of the asset class and led to stronger demand from real money investors. Due to investor preferences and an inverted yield curve, the euro primary market was increasingly limited to shorter maturities. In a market environment characterised by high volatility, unsecured bank bonds recorded significant spread widening in some cases. (Sources: ECB, Bloomberg, vdp)

The rise in interest rates also made deposits more attractive for private customers. Demand from private customers for interest-bearing investments, particularly term deposits, increased noticeably. Despite increased competition in the deposit market, average funding spreads fell significantly. (Sources: ECB, Bloomberg, vdp)

#### **COURSE OF BUSINESS**

pbb Group's business development in 2023 was characterised by the prolonged crisis on the commercial real estate market. This also had an impact on the development of financial performance indicators.

At the beginning of 2023, pbb Group had forecasted profit before tax in a range between €170 million and €200 million. Due to the ongoing crisis in the real estate markets and the associated additions to loan loss provisions, the forecast range was adjusted to between €90 million and €110 million on 14 November 2023. At €90 million, profit before tax for 2023 was ultimately at the lower end of the new range.

At the beginning of the year, a forecast range of €9.0 billion to €10.0 billion was set for the new business volume Real Estate Finance. Against the background of the changed market conditions, which were characterised by a low transaction volume in the target markets, pbb Group adjusted the range to between €6.5 billion and €8.0 billion on 10 August 2023. With a volume of €7.2 billion, new business was within the current range. As the volume of new business exceeded repayments overall, the financing volume increased slightly as forecasted (€31.1 billion; 31 December 2022: €29.3 billion).

As a result of the lower than originally expected profit, the return on CET1 capital after tax of 2.4% was below the range forecasted at the beginning of the year (4.5% to 5.0%). The cost-income ratio totalled 45.8% in the reporting year as a result of higher operating income and was therefore below the forecast range of between 50% and 55%.

With regard to risk-bearing capacity, the forecasts made at the beginning of 2023 materialised. From a normative perspective, all regulatory minimum ratios were exceeded as at 31 December 2023 and the risk cover funds still available after deducting these also covered all other material risks as at the balance sheet date. From an economic perspective, the capital available to cover the risks also exceeded the economic capital requirement as at 31 December 2023.

As at 31 December 2023, the CET1 ratio was 15.7%. As forecasted, it was therefore well above the SREP ratio of around 8.4% plus the countercyclical capital buffer, which varies from country to country and therefore from portfolio to portfolio.

## Page 25

#### **DEVELOPMENT IN EARNINGS**

In 2023, pbb Group's profit before tax was characterised by a significant impact in net income from risk provisioning due to the effects of the real estate market crisis. As a result of this burden, pbb Group's profit before tax amounted to €90 million und was lower than in the previous year (2022: €213 million). Net income from realisations, which benefited from the disposal of financial instruments, had a particularly favourable effect. In detail, the income statement items developed as follows:

#### **Deutsche Pfandbriefbank Group (pbb Group)**

| pbb Group                                                                                                                                    |              | 2023 | 2022 |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|------|------|
| Operating performance                                                                                                                        |              |      |      |
| Operating income                                                                                                                             | in € million | 603  | 531  |
| Net interest income                                                                                                                          | in € million | 482  | 489  |
| Net fee and commission income                                                                                                                | in € million | 3    | 8    |
| Net income from financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (Net income from fair<br>value measurement)1)                     | in € million | -    | 20   |
| Net income from derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or<br>loss (Net income from realisations)1) | in € million | 85   | 15   |
| Net income from hedge accounting                                                                                                             | in € million | 1    | -    |
| Net other operating income                                                                                                                   | in € million | 32   | -1   |
| Net income from allowances on financial assets (Net income from risk provisioning)1)                                                         | in € million | -212 | -44  |
| General and administrative expenses                                                                                                          | in € million | -249 | -224 |
| Expenses from bank levies and similar dues                                                                                                   | in € million | -25  | -32  |
| Net income from write-downs and write-ups of non-financial assets                                                                            | in € million | -27  | -18  |
| <b>Profit before tax</b>                                                                                                                     | in € million | 90   | 213  |
| Income tax                                                                                                                                   | in € million | 1    | -26  |
| <b>Net income</b>                                                                                                                            | in € million | 91   | 187  |
| Key ratios                                                                                                                                   |              |      |      |
| Earnings per share (basic and diluted)2)                                                                                                     | in €         | 0.51 | 1.27 |
| Cost-income ratio                                                                                                                            | in %         | 45.8 | 45.6 |
| Return on CET1 capital before tax                                                                                                            | in %         | 2.4  | 6.9  |
| Return on CET1 capital after tax                                                                                                             | in %         | 2.4  | 6.0  |

1) Solely the condensed and parenthesised line item descriptions are used subsequently.

2) For calculation see note "Earnings per share".

At €482 million, net interest income almost reached the previous year's figure of €489 million, with the higher current net interest income from commercial real estate financing almost completely offsetting the elimination of temporary and market interest rate-dependent effects. Both the higher average financing volume (€30.1 billion; 2022: €28.6 billion) and the higher new business margins contributed to the increase in net interest income in the commercial real estate financing business (Real Estate Finance, REF). The REF portfolio volume increased due to significantly lower early repayments (€0.9 billion; 2022: €2.2 billion), which undercut the decline in new business volume (€7.2 billion; 2022: €9.0 billion). By contrast, the extensive elimination of income from interest rate floors due to the higher market interest rate level had a negative impact on earnings. In contrast to the previous year, net interest income also benefited to a lesser extent from the interest premium of 50 basis points for the TLTRO III funding.

Net fee and commission income from non-accruable fees fell to €3 million (2022: €8 million), in particular due to the lower level of new business. Furthermore, additional commission expenses were incurred from service contracts for deposit business in connection with pbb direkt (e.g. Raisin and CHECK24).

Net income from fair value measurement was balanced (2022: €20 million) and did not include any significant individual effects. In the previous year, the net income from fair value measurement was influenced by strong market movements as a result of the outbreak of war in Ukraine and, in particular, by the higher market interest rate level.

Net income from realisations (€ 85 million; 2022: € 15 million) benefited from the sale of financial assets in the Non-Core segment, which led to a contribution to earnings of € 33 million. Taking advantage of opportunities arising from the rise in interest rates, these sales were in line with the new strategy, which provides for an accelerated, value-preserving winddown compared to the regular portfolio run-off. It also benefited from the expiry of potential repayment claims from a past

## Page 63

#### **Risk Reports, Monitoring and Management of Operational Risk**

Essential components of operational risk management are as follows: recording, reporting and analysing internal and external loss data, operational risk self-assessments (ORSA), scenario-based analysis and stress testing. A structured and central reporting system is used to inform Management Board and division heads, the Risk Committee and other supervisory bodies concerning risk events on a regular, timely and comprehensive basis. Reports are prepared both adhoc (where material risk events are escalated) as well as on a monthly basis (Group Risk Report), on a quarterly (Key Risk Indicator Report) or annual (Annual OpRisk Report) basis. Operational risk reporting encompasses material loss events and near-losses, top risk issues, development of risk indicators, development of capital requirements as well as the results from ORSA and scenario analyses.

Management of ICT systems risk and outsourcing risk is fully integrated into operational risk management, and thus into the pbb's risk and compliance structure. Risk management for ICT systems risk generally applies at process level. The annual protection requirement analysis, the quarterly reporting of relevant information and metrics such as the key performance indicators (KPIs) as well as the key risk indicators (KRIs), are all essential elements. Key elements of outsourcing risk management include the risk assessment of all outsourcing relationships, which is updated at least once a year for significant outsourcing and at least every three years for non-significant outsourcing, ongoing coverage by the Accountable Person for outsourcing, monitoring using suitable key risk indicators, and quarterly reporting to the Outsourcing Committee.

pbb Group uses models to quantify risks within the individual risk types, and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, which leads to model risks potentially incurred as a result of models which are incorrectly designed, implemented, or applied. To ensure that model risks are as low as possible, pbb has established a framework for model risk management.

Management of legal risk is aimed primarily at the prevention of losses which could be incurred if business activities of pbb Group are not documented with legal certainty. Structuring business activities in a manner that ensures legal certainty also serves to protect the integrity and reputation of pbb Group. In order to achieve this goal, the Legal department provides the entire pbb Group with a comprehensive, forward-looking business- and solution-oriented consultancy service. The Legal department assists business divisions by monitoring developments in the relevant legislation and case law, and reviews the effects of such developments on new and existing business. The results are discussed with the responsible divisions and/or in the Legal and Regulatory Risk Committee. The Legal Policy describes the roles and responsibilities of the Legal department within pbb Group and serves as a guideline for employees in the Legal department. Furthermore, the Legal department gives an assessment towards the Finance department whether provisions for pending legal cases have to be recognised. Moreover, the OpRisk loss database captures losses and provisions from legal risks which need to be seen in conjunction with operational risk events. Overall, legal risks are taken into consideration in the existing operational risk management framework, and are an integral part of, inter alia, the Key Risk Indicator Report, the Operational Risk Self-Assessment (ORSA), the analysis and reporting of risk events, as well as for determining economic capital.

ESG risks included in operational risk are also integrated into operational risk management.

# **Risk Measurement**

Please refer to the chapter "Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)" for further details on the quantification of operational risk including legal risks as well as the calculation results of the economic capital for operational risk.

In line with the Standardised Approach according to article 317 et seq. of CRR, the own funds requirement for operational risk, which is calculated at the end of each year, was € 78 million as at 31 December 2023 (31 December 2022: € 77 million).

## Page 64

#### **Operational Risks Profile of pbb Group**

pbb Group suffered a financial gross loss of €5.9 million from operational risks during 2023 (2022: €0.6 million). The net loss, which includes repayments, amounted to €0.6 million in 2023 (2022: €0.5 million). pbb assesses its operational risk profile as stable.

#### **Opportunities**

pbb Group aims to reduce potential operational risk to the extent possible by clearly assigning responsibilities for the management of operational risk and by continuously developing the associated governance.

#### **Business and strategic risk**

Within pbb Group, business and strategic risk is defined as the risk of negative deviations of income and expenses from the planned figures – as a result of strategic decisions, false assumptions or unexpected changes in the external framework conditions, to the extent that such deviations are not covered by other risk types, such as market risk, credit risk or operational risk. Please refer to the chapter "Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)" for further details on the quantification as well as the calculation results of the economic capital of business and strategic risk.

#### **Property Risk**

Real estate risk is defined as the potential negative change in value in pbb's own properties due to a deterioration of the real estate market or economic framework, or a negative change in the special characteristics of the individual properties caused by vacancies, change in potential uses, structural damage, need for investment, legal and economic frameworks, and other factors.

As at 31 December 2023 as well as at 31 December 2022, pbb did not hold any own properties.

#### **Pension risk**

Pension risk is defined as the risk of incurring additional expenses due to insufficient capitalisation of pension obligations from defined benefit plans. It is considered within the scope of ICAAP. Pension risk is included in the market risk, for details, please refer to the chapter "Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)".

#### **Central Counterparty (CCP) risk**

Central counterparty (CCP) risk defines the risk of losses caused by liability claims of the CCP against pbb, for example, in the event of the default of a clearing member. The risk is taken into account in the economic perspective, using a buffer in the available financial resources, and in the normative perspective when calculating risk-weighted assets.

#### **Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) risk**

#### **Definition**

In accordance with the EBA Report on Management and Supervision of ESG Risks for Credit Institutions and Investment Firms (EBA/REP/2021/18), the 7th MaRisk amendment and the ECB Guidelines on Climate-related and Environmental Risks, pbb Group defines ESG risk as the risk of adverse financial effects on the institution resulting from the actual or expected impact of ESG factors on the Group's counterparties, or on its invested assets. ESG factors are environmental, social or governance aspects that could have a positive or negative impact on the financial performance or solvency of a company, sovereign or individual. ESG risk also encompasses negative financial, economic and social impacts that could arise from the activities of the institution itself.

## Page 65

ESG risks include the following components:

- **Environmental risks:** Climate and environmental risks refer to risks of losses and negative impacts due to climate change and the destruction of the environment. The general understanding is that climate and environmental risks comprise the following two main risk drivers:
	- **Physical risk:** Physical risk refers to the financial impact of a changing climate. These impacts include more frequent extreme weather events and gradual changes in the climate, as well as environmental destruction (e.g. in the form of air and water pollution, land contamination, water stress, biodiversity loss and deforestation). A physical risk is considered to be acute if it materialises due to extreme events, such as drought, flooding or storms. If it is the result of gradual changes (such as rising temperatures, rising sea levels, water stress, biodiversity loss, changes in the use of land, destruction of natural habitats and resource scarcity), it is classified as chronic. Impacts can occur directly (e.g. as physical loss or damage or in the form of lower productivity) or indirectly, e.g. as a result of subsequent events such as supply chain disruption.
	- **Transition risk:** Transition risk describes financial losses that institutions can incur, directly or indirectly, as a result of the process of adjustment leading to a lower-carbon and more environmentally sustainable economy. This risk could materialise, for example, due to political measures adopted at very short notice to protect the climate and the environment, due to technical progress or due to changes in market sentiment and preferences.
- **Social risks:** pbb Group defines social risks as the risks of an adverse financial impact on the institution resulting from current or future effects of social factors – especially non-compliance with human and employees' rights and matters, any negative impact of business activities on society/communities in general or specifically (such as on indigenous minorities or similar groups), or from product safety and end-customers – on its counterparties or invested assets. Negative effects can also result from social factors associated with the institution's own activities.
- **Governance risks:** pbb defines governance risks as the risks of a negative financial impact on the institution resulting from current or future effects of governance factors on its counterparties or invested assets. Negative effects can also result from governance factors associated with the institution's own activities.

# **ESG risk identification: materiality analysis and assessment**

pbb considers risks from ESG components to be a cross-sectional risk, as the respective risk factors have an impact on other types of risk. Overall ESG risk is classified as being material.

To ensure that ESG risks are given adequate consideration in the Bank's risk management processes, an identification and assessment process for ESG risk drivers was established as a firm component of the annual risk inventory and has been further developed in 2023. The requirements from the EU taxonomy (for climate and environmental aspects) and materiality considerations as defined by the CSRD were included for the first time. According to pbb's assessment, the identification and assessment process for ESG risk drivers thus covers all relevant regulations at the current stage. By identifying and describing the possible impact channels of the ESG risk factors considered, it became clear to what extent the economic and financial activities of a company are affected (financial materiality/outside-in) and how the activities of a company affect ESG factors (ecological and social materiality/inside-out) and in what time frame. The distinction between these two perspectives results from the application of the principle of "dual materiality" and thus also results in two different types of materiality.

In the materiality assessment, suitable data is used for each risk factor for the portfolio (according to pbb's assessment). For factors with available ESG risk data, a capital-related quantitative materiality threshold has already been applied. For ESG risk factors without quantitative risk assessment, there is only an expert judgement. The pbb experts surveyed for this purpose have in-depth specialist knowledge, such as the experts (for climate and environmental aspects) from the Property Analysis & Valuation division, who have E(SG) and property expertise thanks to corresponding expert training. The experts interviewed for the topics of social and governance are specialists from the HR and legal departments who are trained and qualified in their respective specialist areas. With regard to the materiality of the environmental, social and governance risk factors, the analyses of the risk inventory were interlinked with the result of the materiality analysis from the future CSRD reporting obligation for the first time, in which partial results from the CSRD workshops held for this purpose were also considered. At the time of preparing the risk inventory and the 2024 risk strategy (October 2023), the materiality analysis for the CSRD had not yet been completed.

## Page 66

As part of the comprehensive, systematic materiality analysis, specific risk factors with regard to physical climate and environmental risk, transition risk and governance risk were classified as material. In the area of social risk, none of the risk factors considered were identified as material.

The following table provides an overview:

| Risk                                      | Designation                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Portfolio         | Time horizon               | Perspective                                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Physical risk:<br>Acute climate hazards   | Flood, storm (including cyclone, hurricane, typhoon),<br>tornado, forest fire                                                                                                                                     | REF / NC /<br>C&A | Medium term<br>(1-5 years) | Financially material<br>(Outside-in)                                                           |
|                                           | Heavy rain fall                                                                                                                                                                                                   | REF / NC /<br>C&A | Long term<br>(> 5 years)   |                                                                                                |
|                                           | Heatwave, landslide                                                                                                                                                                                               | NC / C&A          | Medium term<br>(1-5 years) |                                                                                                |
|                                           | Drought                                                                                                                                                                                                           | NC / C&A          | Long term<br>(> 5 years)   |                                                                                                |
| Physical risk:<br>Chronic climate hazards | None                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                   |                            |                                                                                                |
| Physical risk:<br>Environmental factors   | Soiling / contamination                                                                                                                                                                                           | REF               | Short term<br>(< 1 year)   | Financially material<br>(Outside-in) & Ecologically<br>and socially essential (Inside-<br>out) |
|                                           | Volcanism, earthquakes                                                                                                                                                                                            | REF / NC /<br>C&A | Short term<br>(< 1 year)   | Financially material<br>(Outside-in)                                                           |
| Transitory<br>risk factors                | Low energy efficiency / high energy consumption, high<br>CO2 footprint (Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions)                                                                                                                  | REF / NC /<br>C&A | Medium term<br>(1-5 years) | Financially material<br>(Outside-in) & Ecologically<br>and socially essential (Inside-<br>out) |
| Transitory<br>risk factors                | New sustainability and environmental regulations / CO2<br>pricing                                                                                                                                                 |                   | Long term                  | Financially material<br>(Outside-in)                                                           |
|                                           | Market sentiment                                                                                                                                                                                                  | REF               | > 5 years                  | Financially material<br>(Outside-in) & Ecologically<br>and socially essential (Inside-<br>out) |
| Social-<br>risk factors                   | None                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                   |                            |                                                                                                |
| Governance<br>risk factors                | Unethical corporate behaviour culture, supplier manage-<br>ment/unethical supplier behaviour and payment practices,<br>anti-competitive behaviour and political engagement or<br>lobbying, corruption and bribery |                   | Short term<br>(< 1 year)   | Financially material<br>(Outside-in) & Ecologically<br>and socially essential (Inside-<br>out) |

## Page 67

The impact on the individual risk types is analysed and assessed for ESG risk drivers identified as material. The physical and transitory risk factors recognised as material have a potential impact on credit risk. Some acute physical risk factors (heavy rainfall, storms and tornadoes) could, with a low probability and to a limited extent, lead to damage to property or disruptions to the Bank's business continuity and are therefore relevant for operational risk alongside some governance factors. There is also a potential influence of transitory, environmental and governance factors on reputational, legal and liability risks as well as business and strategic risk. No direct sustainability risks are currently recognisable for pbb's market risk as well as liquidity and funding risk.

These assessment results are based on quantitative and qualitative evaluations of the portfolio. In doing so, external location-specific risk data supplied by the insurance industry and from public hazard maps were queried and analysed, and initial materiality definitions applied.

To assess biodiversity and environmental risks, according to pbb's judgement suitable public environmental and biodiversity scores for the underlying economic sectors of our clients were quantitatively analysed for the entire portfolio. For the REF segment, a potential contribution to the loss of biodiversity through changes in the use of land was also evaluated using satellite data on the type of land coverage at the locations of the properties financed in Europe. Overall, biodiversity risks were not classified as material, both inside-out and outside-in. The materiality of the aforementioned transitory risk factors for the REF segment was determined qualitatively - by expert judgement. For the materiality assessment for the non-REF portfolio, relevant transitory risk factors were assessed in terms of their potential impact on credit risk using data-based expert judgement.

All governance and social factors were assessed using qualitative expert judgement via the newly designed CSRD workshop process, in which both experts and stakeholders judge materiality in both perspectives.

Based on the insights gained from the materiality analysis and risk inventory, the impact of climate risks was analysed using various scenarios:

- In order to systematically examine the potential vulnerability of pbb's portfolio and capital position with regard to medium-term transitory climate and environmental risks, a corresponding short-term transition scenario was defined, fully calculated and analysed within the normative and economic ICAAP perspectives, and then firmly integrated into the stress test programme.
- A combined long-term transition risk and chronic physical risk scenario was calculated in order to extend the focus to potential events that manifest themselves over a long-term period. In this scenario, the period up to 2050 was observed under different climate transition paths.
- The impact of acute physical risks was analysed in a dedicated scenario.

To calculate the impact of different stress scenarios for the banking business and to manage identified risks, specific models were used, taking into account climate-specific parameters. The results of the three climate risk scenarios have been considered in the ICAAP and ILAAP management approaches.

Overall, risk factors have been identified for environmental, social and governance aspects. These ESG risk factors have an impact on counterparty credit risk, operational risk, including potential reputational, legal and liability risks, as well as business and strategic risk. There are currently no indications of any direct sustainability risks to pbb's market risk, and its liquidity and funding risk.

pbb has taken ESG risk factors into consideration in the monitoring and reporting, as well as in stress tests and scenario analyses. ESG factors are in the process of being fully incorporated in the quantifications as part of ICAAP.

# **Monitoring and supervision ESG risk**

pbb aims to consider sustainability aspects within all its business activities, and to minimise the risk of negative consequences due to ESG risks. To ensure comprehensive compliance in this respect, appropriate monitoring of ESG risk is essential so that immediate countermeasures can be taken if necessary.

## Page 68

Specific risk indicators have been defined and assigned to the individual components for monitoring the various aspects of the Group's own ESG risk (inside-out perspective). Based on a traffic light system, amber and red thresholds have been defined for these risk indicators. Risk indicator reporting is performed within the scope of the Key Risk Indicator (KRI) report for non-financial risks in the Risk Committee, to the Management Board and to the division heads on a quarterly basis. Both the ESG risk indicators and the internal targets for the various aspects of ESG risk are continuously developed, enhanced and specified.

Monitoring environmental risk (outside-in perspective) is currently focused on the aspects of avoidance of, and adaptation to, climate change associated with the properties we finance. Monitoring activities for both the REF and non-REF exposures potentially affected by physical and transition risks were launched within internal risk reporting. Additional transparency in internal reporting also provides information on market risk sensitivities related to environmental risk factors, and on ESG-related losses with regard to operational risk exposure in the REF portfolio. Internal reporting is continuously expanded in line with available data. The quarterly KRI report contains portfolio information regarding transparency based on the total "scored" share and the share of the portfolio assessed as "green".

The monitoring and management of social and governance risks focusses primarily on governance indicators, such as the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, compliance with financial sanctions and embargoes, and the prevention of fraud and other criminal acts, particularly the prevention of corruption. pbb Group has put appropriate safeguards in place in this respect and, in addition to a Compliance Policy and the Code of Conduct, has issued various other internal guidelines, instructions and process descriptions. Compliance is responsible for ensuring due and proper adherence to these requirements. As an investment services provider, pbb also observes a whole range of regulations and requirements, in particular to ensure appropriate client/investor protection and, consequently, also to safeguard its own reputation.

# **Management of ESG risks**

**REF** The principle of environmental sustainability of the properties to be financed within the pbb Group is based on the close interlinking of the Sales, Credit and Risk Management divisions as well as the appraisers, and is part of the credit decision-making process. The analysis with regard to taxonomy conformity or defined e-criteria in accordance with the pbb Green Scoring Model with its three pillars: energy efficiency, "green building" certifications and additional sustainability criteria (e.g. distance to public transport, use of green electricity) including the decarbonisation tool, which is based on the CRREM tool, is an integral part of all new business. In addition, particular focus is placed on the opportunities for transformation into sustainable properties.

At the same time, systematic and comprehensive data on sustainability aspects is collected as part of new business and also from clients with existing financings. As at 31 December 2023, 73.6% of the real estate portfolio is now classified with a pbb "Green" scoring. Accordingly, pbb Group has gained a meaningful overview of the sustainability of its loan portfolio and the associated risks, and the basis for long-term management of ESG risks has been laid. The data collected was integrated into pbb's own IT landscape in 2023 and is continuously updated.

The entirety of the properties subject to pbb's "Green" scoring, the scores achieved, the breakdown by asset class and country, and the identification of potential risk clusters are monitored on a monthly basis. In 2023, monitoring was expanded and further developed with regard to early warning indicators and other monitoring aspects.

**Non-REF** The Non-REF portfolio includes the Non-Core portfolio and Consolidation & Adjustments. The ESG risk for the Non-REF portfolio is generally categorised as low.

The non-core portfolio is a wind-down portfolio and therefore, due to the low ESG risk, no active management of ESG risks is planned and is rather reduced by continuous repayments (Ø 10 years remaining term). No new business was entered into in 2023.

## Page 69

Consolidation & Adjustments includes internal reconciliation and consolidation positions as well as asset positions for asset and liability management. ESG risks are generally managed by analysing the creditworthiness of business partners, which includes an ESG risk assessment.

ESG risk is managed in accordance with the "3 Lines of Defence (3 LoD)" principle, with the risk owners of the various specialist departments that are particularly close to customers/public (Sales, PAV, CRM, Communications, Finance, Treasury and Corporate Office) forming the first line of defence. The second line of defence is formed by the RMC and Compliance departments with support functions from Human Resources and IT. The GIA area represents the third line of defence. The assessment register for the categorised ESG risk factors created as part of the materiality analysis is used as the basis for assigning the specialist areas and associated key controls according to the principle of the three lines of defence.

# **Opportunities**

ESG risks generally also offer potential opportunities related to sector-specific aspects – especially by offering sustainable financing solutions (green loans), expanding activities as a transformation financier (green capex) as well as issuing green bonds. Sustainable financing solutions reduce the probability of loan defaults, increase the value of the collateral furnished and prevent potential reputational damage.

Client orientation and internal governance are further fundamental success factors for pbb in order to secure the financing portfolio, and give the Bank the opportunity to set itself apart from its peers, in positive terms, in a direct comparison.

Moreover, the qualifications and satisfaction of our employees are the main foundation for the quality of their work, and thus for the Company's potential.

The sustainability strategy is essentially an integral part of the business strategy and is designed to continue to reinforce ESG as a core brand element, minimise sustainability risks to the greatest extent possible, whilst making use of the different opportunities that arise.

# **INTERNAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY ASSESSMENT PROCESS (ICAAP)**

Pursuant to section 91 (2) of the German Public Limited Companies Act (Aktiengesetz – "AktG") and section 25a (1) of the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz – "KWG"), pbb Group is obliged to establish appropriate and effective internal procedures in order to ensure the Bank's risk-bearing capacity at all times. The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) is subject to regulatory review (within the framework of the SREP); it complements the regulatory procedures under Pillar 1 of the Basel III framework, as laid down in the CRR and the CRD.

Pursuant to the "ECB Guide to the internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP)", published in November 2018, regulatory authorities expect banks to apply two supplementary ICAAP perspectives, one being normative and the other being economic. In line with current ICAAP methodology, the capital adequacy assessment is evaluated from a normative as well as from an economic perspective. Both perspectives are aimed at the constancy of the business and capital planning, and on the long-term viability of the pbb Group.

The normative perspective is geared towards securing the regulatory and supervisory requirements for capital and liquidity over several years. Particular focus is placed on forward-looking compliance with supervisory capital ratio requirements under expected and adverse conditions. The normative perspective also takes into account both the crossinstitutional capital ratios required pursuant to the CRR and the bank-specific minimum ratios for own funds according to the ECB's SREP decision. Capital-related regulatory and legal requirements comprise the CET1 ratio, tier 1 ratio, own funds ratio, Leverage Ratio, as well as rules concerning MREL (Minimum Requirements on Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities) and large loan exposure limits.

## Page 70

The economic perspective is an additional, parallel management approach on an equal footing that monitors capital on an ongoing basis, with reports submitted on a monthly basis. It aims to safeguard the economic viability of the institution, and is therefore geared towards maintaining the institution's net asset value. For this purpose, all material economic risks are viewed from a present value perspective, quantified as far as possible using models, and aggregated to economic capital. Economic capital is defined as the capital required to cover the financial risks, taking into account a confidence level of 99.9% over a one-year horizon. It is calculated for all relevant types of risk, and aggregated to form total economic capital (after diversification effects). The capital available to cover total risk is calculated and compared to economic capital.

Risks identified in the risk inventory as material having an impact on capital and income - these are market risk, credit risk, business and strategic risk, operational risk and property risk - are included in the ICAAP, using models or other methods to quantify the economic capital of these risk types. Within these types of risk, there are additional material subrisks on a granular level that were taken into account as other risks in the ICAAP during the period under review, with extension risk, settlement risk of derivatives, market risk under TLTRO III and realisation risk of defaulted customers aggregated in a single category. Since the beginning of 2023, model risk has no longer been reported under other risks, but is recognised in the respective risk types. Funding risk is included in business and strategic risk.

Over and above the risk-bearing capacity analysis, the ICAAP comprises additional management tools, including a system of limits and early-warning thresholds, as well as a comprehensive monthly monitoring and reporting process. Moreover, key indicators selected within the scope of base and stress scenarios are projected over a period of up to three years, with limits and early-warning thresholds also assigned to these figures. Limit compliance, in combination with a defined escalation process, supports the continuous safeguarding of an appropriate capitalisation.

The results of the ICAAP and of the stress tests are regularly presented to the Management Board and the Risk Committee. The content of the risk-bearing capacity analysis are discussed there – if necessary, management measures are defined.

The methods of calculating economic capital for the individual risk types, as well as risk indicators as at the reporting date, are described in greater detail in the following sub-sections, and in the chapter "Result of Risk-bearing Capacity Analysis".

# **Quantification of economic capital for individual risk types**

For internal assessment of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process in line with the economic perspective, economic capital for quantifiable risks is determined using models or scenario analyses, and aggregated into overall bank risk using a mathematical/statistical approach, taking specific correlations between market and counterparty credit risks into account. Thereby risks are calculated for a one-year period, using a confidence level of 99.9%.

The methods of calculating economic capital for the individual material risk types for 2023 are explained below.

# **Economic capital for Credit Risk**

For calculating the credit risk at the portfolio level, a credit portfolio model which is based on the approach of a so-called asset value model is used. The fundamental concept used involves the repeated simulation of correlated rating migrations for borrowers, whereby the associated portfolio revaluation is used to derive a statistical distribution of losses – which is in turn used to derive economic capital in terms of unexpected losses. Economic capital quantifies the maximum unexpected loss, given a pre-defined confidence level, which may be incurred due to rating migrations (including defaults) in the lending business within a single year. Besides the loss distribution of the credit portfolio, as a significant result of this process, credit risk capital can be assigned to individual borrower units in line with the risks involved, using the so-called expected shortfall principle. This ensures a risk-adequate allocation to borrowers, and thus constitutes a major cornerstone in the risk-oriented management of the credit portfolio. During the observation period, correlations between borrowers, borrower groups and regions were updated.

## Page 163

#### **81. Members of the Supervisory Board and of the Management Board**

**Supervisory Board of pbb in financial year 2022**

| Name<br>Place of residence                                         | Principal occupation                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Supervisory Board memberships<br>and other directorships in 2023                                                                                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Function in Supervisory Board<br>Initial appointment               | Functions in the Committees of the Supervisory Board                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Dr Günther Bräunig                                                 | Management consultant and former Chairman of the<br>Management Board of KfW                                                                                                                                                                        | Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn, Germany – Member of<br>the Supervisory Board (until 5.4.2023)                                                                                      |
| Frankfurt/Main, Germany<br>Chairman (until 25.5.2023)<br>14.8.2009 | Chairman of the Executive and Nomination Committee<br>and of the Remuneration Committee (until 25.5.2023);<br>Member of the Audit and Digitalisation Committee and of<br>the Risk Management and Liquidity Strategy Committee<br>(until 25.5.2023) |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Dr Louis Hagen                                                     | Management consultant and former Chairman of the<br>Management Board of Münchner Hypothekenbank eG                                                                                                                                                 | LBBW Asset Management Investmentgesellschaft<br>mbH, Stuttgart – Member of the Supervisory Board                                                                              |
| Starnberg/Germany<br>Chairman (since 25.5.2023)<br>25.5.2023       | Chairman of the Executive and Nomination Committee<br>and of the Remuneration Committee (since 25.5.2023);<br>Member of the Audit and Digitalisation Committee and of<br>the Risk Management and Liquidity Strategy Committee<br>(since 25.5.2023) | Baader Bank AG, Unterschleißheim – Member of the<br>Supervisory Board                                                                                                         |
| Hanns-Peter Storr                                                  | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | BHW Bausparkasse AG, Hameln, Germany – Member                                                                                                                                 |
| Schwäbisch Gmünd, Germany<br>Member; Deputy Chairman<br>12.5.2021  | Chairman of the Risk Management and Liquidity Strategy<br>Committee;<br>Member of the Audit and Digitalisation Committee                                                                                                                           | of the Supervisory Board                                                                                                                                                      |
| Karim Bohn                                                         | Chief Financial Officer der Canyon Bicycles GmbH                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Augsburg/Germany<br>Member (since 30.11.2023)<br>30.11.2023        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Gertraud Dirscherl                                                 | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Hans DEHN SE, Neumarkt i.d. Oberpfalz – Member of                                                                                                                             |
| Landshut<br>Member<br>02.02.2022                                   | Chairwoman of the Audit and Digitalisation Committee;<br>Member of the Remuneration Committee and the Risk<br>Management and Liquidity Strategy Committee                                                                                          | the Supervisory Board<br>DEHN SE, Neumarkt i.d. Oberpfalz – Member of the<br>Supervisory Board                                                                                |
| Dr Thomas Duhnkrack                                                | Entrepreneur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Hauck Aufhäuser Lampe Privatbank AG, Frank                                                                                                                                    |
| Kronberg/Taunus, Germany<br>Member<br>21.7.2015                    | Member of the Audit and Digitalisation Committee and of<br>the Executive and Nomination Committee (until<br>15.11.2023)                                                                                                                            | furt/Main, Germany – Member of the Supervisory Board<br>(until 28.4.2023)                                                                                                     |
| Prof Dr Kerstin Hennig                                             | University professor EBS University<br>(until 30.9.2023)<br>Professor Frankfurt School of Finance & Manage<br>ment<br>(since 1.11.2023)                                                                                                            | DWS Grundbesitz GmbH, Frankfurt/Main – Member of<br>the Supervisory Board<br>DEMIRE Deutsche Mittelstand Real Estate AG, Frank<br>furt/Main – Member of the Supervisory Board |
| Schmitten<br>Member<br>19.07.2022                                  | Member of the Risk Management and Liquidity Strategy<br>Committee (since 05.08.2022)                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Susanne Klöß-Braekler                                              | Independent Supervisory and Advisory Board Mem<br>ber, Investor, Senior Advisor                                                                                                                                                                    | ING-DiBa AG, Frankfurt/Main, Germany – Chairman of<br>the Supervisory Board                                                                                                   |
| Munich, Germany<br>Member<br>12.5.2021                             | Member of the Executive and Nomination Committee and<br>of the Remuneration Committee                                                                                                                                                              | Oddo BHF AG, Frankfurt/Main, Germany – Member of<br>the Supervisory Board<br>Cembra Money Bank AG, Zürich, Switzerland –<br>Member of the Supervisory Board                   |
| Georg Kordick                                                      | Bank employee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | –                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Poing, Germany<br>Employee Representative<br>22.2.1990             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Olaf Neumann                                                       | Bank employee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | –                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Munich, Germany<br>Employee Representative<br>12.5.2021            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Heike Theißing                                                     | Bank employee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | –                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Munich, Germany<br>Employee Representative<br>7.7.2011             | Member of the Remuneration Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                               |

## Page 164

#### **Management Board of pbb in financial year 2023**

| Name and place of residence      | Function in the Management Board                                                     | Supervisory Board memberships |
|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Andreas Arndt<br>Munich          | CEO and until 30 November 2023 CFO                                                   | -                             |
| Thomas Köntgen<br>Frankfurt/Main | Deputy CEO, Real Estate Finance and until 7 August<br>2023 Public Investment Finance | -                             |
| Andreas Schenk<br>Dreieich       | CRO                                                                                  | -                             |
| Marcus Schulte<br>Grünwald       | Treasurer and since 1 December 2023 CFO                                              | -                             |

Andreas Arndt left the Management Board at the end of February 2024. Kay Wolf was appointed as a member of the Management Board with effect from 1 February 2024 and has been Chairman of the Management Board since 1 March 2024. Dr Pamela Hoerr was appointed as a member of the Management Board with effect from 17 January 2024.

#### **82. Holdings of pbb**

#### **Holdings of pbb as of 31 December 31.12.2023**

| Additional statement according to HGB<br>Name<br>Place of business and country                         | Purpose of business                   | Interest in %                              |                                | Differing<br>voting rights<br>in % | Currency | Equity<br>in thousands | Net income/<br>loss<br>in thousands |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------|------------------------|-------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                        |                                       | Total<br>(Sec 16 (4)<br>Aktienge-<br>setz) | Of which<br>held<br>indirectly |                                    |          |                        |                                     |
| <b>Consolidated companies</b>                                                                          |                                       |                                            |                                |                                    |          |                        |                                     |
| IMMO Invest Real Estate GmbH1)<br>Munich, Germany                                                      | Purchase of salvage acquisiti-<br>ons | 100.00                                     | -                              | -                                  | EUR      | 948                    |                                     |
| <b>Associated companies not measured at<br/>equity due to minor significance</b>                       |                                       |                                            |                                |                                    |          |                        |                                     |
| Eco Estate GmbH<br>Frankfurt/Main, Germany                                                             | ESG consulting                        | 35.00                                      | -                              | -                                  | EUR      | 97                     | -385                                |
| SOMA Grundstücks-<br>Vermietungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Objekt<br>Darmstadt KG2)<br>Dusseldorf, Germany | Model of bank holding                 | 33.33                                      | -                              | -                                  | EUR      | 5,048                  | 2,779                               |

1) Profit transfer by shareholders on the basis of profit and loss transfer agreement.

2) Financial figures from the financial year 2022.

## Page 165

#### **83. Country-by-Country Reporting**

The requirements of Article 89 CRD (Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV) concerning to so-called Country-by-Country Reporting were endorsed in German law by Section 26a KWG (German Banking Act). In financial years 2023 and 2022 no entity, branch or representative office of pbb received public subsidies. On 31 December 2023, the ratio of net profit and total balance sheet of pbb Group was 0.2% (31 December 2022: 0.4%). The further figures required by Section 26a KWG are disclosed in the following table:

#### **Country-by-Country Reporting (Additional statement according to Section 26a KWG) as of 31 December 2023**

| Type of business<br>Name and place of business               | Country        | Number of<br>employees1) | Turnover2) 3)<br>(in € million) | Income/loss<br>before tax3)<br>(in € million) | Income taxes3)<br>(in € million) |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Deposit taking credit institution                            |                |                          |                                 |                                               |                                  |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Munich                           | Germany        | 708                      | 567                             | 87                                            | -1                               |
| Branch of a deposit taking credit institution                |                |                          |                                 |                                               |                                  |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, London branch                    | United Kingdom | 40                       | 12                              | -                                             | -                                |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Madrid branch                    | Spain          | 8                        | 2                               | -                                             | -                                |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Paris branch                     | France         | 30                       | 12                              | 1                                             | 1                                |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Stockholm branch                 | Sweden         | 11                       | 4                               | 1                                             | -                                |
| Representative office of a deposit taking credit institution |                |                          |                                 |                                               |                                  |
| Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, representative office New York   | USA            | 9                        | 6                               | 1                                             | 1                                |
| Provider of ancillary services                               |                |                          |                                 |                                               |                                  |
| IMMO Invest Real Estate GmbH, Munich                         | Germany        | -                        | -                               | -                                             | -                                |

1) Full-time equivalents not including apprentices, interns/working students and short-term employees with fixed terms < 1 year.

2) Operating income as turnover equivalent.

3) Figures before consolidation.

#### **84. Report on Post-balance Sheet Date Events**

At the beginning of 2024, market confidence in pbb Group's prospects deteriorated significantly. This was triggered, among other things, by publications by other banks, particularly US banks, about credit loss allowances recognised on US commercial real estate financings and the resulting general concern that further significant impairments might also become necessary at other banks involved in this segment. As a listed bank with a business model focussed on commercial real estate finance and a 10% share of US business, pbb was particularly affected by the growing concern. As a result, corresponding sell recommendations from analysts, among other things, led to a significant increase in spreads on bonds and a marked decline in pbb's share price.

On 14 February 2024, Standard & Poor's lowered pbb's ratings by one and two notches respectively, while maintaining a negative outlook. In simple terms, the rating downgrade was one notch for the long-term preferred ratings including the issuer rating and the preferred senior unsecured debt rating, while the ratings for subordinated liabilities including the non-preferred senior unsecured rating were lowered by two notches. The short-term issuer rating also deteriorated by one notch.

pbb Group has sufficient long-term unsecured funding and is not planning any senior unsecured issues for the current year. As at 31 December 2023, unsecured funding comprised retail deposits of €6.6 billion, of which €5.7 billion were fixed-term deposits with an average maturity of more than three years. For 2024, the collateralised refinancing requirement on the capital market is largely covered by higher refinancing activity in the second half of 2023 and at the beginning of 2024 with moderate REF new business expectations for 2024. The capital ratios as at 31 December 2023 were well above the regulatory requirements. pbb Group is closely monitoring the situation on the markets and adapting its business activities accordingly.

Kay Wolf joined pbb as a member of the Management Board on 1 February 2024. On 1 March 2024, he succeeded Andreas Arndt as Chairman of pbb's Management Board, who left the Management Board the day before. Dr Pamela Hoerr joined pbb's Management Board on 17 January 2024.

## Page 166

Munich, 5 March 2024

Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG The Management Board

K. Mooy

signature

Prar

M. Schander

Kay Wolf Thomas Köntgen Dr. Pamela Hoerr Andreas Schenk Marcus Schulte

Marcus Schulte

## Page 167

# Responsibility Statement

To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the Combined Management Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the material opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group.

Munich, 5 March 2024

Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG The Management Board

K.fooy

Pror

M. Schander

Kay Wolf Thomas Köntgen Dr. Pamela Hoerr Andreas Schenk Marcus Schulte

## Page 168

# Independent Auditor's Report

**To Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Munich/Germany** 

# **REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE COMBINED MAN-AGEMENT REPORT**

# **Audit Opinions**

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Munich/Germany, and its subsidiaries (the Group) which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2023, the consolidated statement of profit and loss, the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2023, and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the combined management report for the parent and the group of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, Munich/Germany, for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2023. In accordance with the German legal requirements, we have not audited the sections "Organisation and Principles of Internal Control System" and "Appropriateness and Effectiveness of the Internal Control and Risk Management System" of the combined management report, which are marked as "unaudited", nor the content of the combined corporate governance statement, including the further reporting on corporate governance included therein, nor the combined separate non-financial report, each of which is made reference to in the combined management report.

In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,

- the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRS as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 315e (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2023 and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2023, and
- the accompanying combined management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group's position. In all material respects, this combined management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the combined management report does not cover the content of the sections "Organisation and Principles of Internal Control System" and "Appropriateness and Effectiveness of the Internal Control and Risk Management System" of the combined management report stated above, nor the content of the combined corporate governance statement stated above, including the further reporting on corporate governance included therein, nor the combined separate non-financial report stated above.

Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined management report.

# **Basis for the Audit Opinions**

We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined management report in accordance with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014; referred to subsequently as "EU Audit Regulation") and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the "Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Combined Management Report" section of our auditor's report. We are independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined management report.

## Page 169

#### **Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements**

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2023. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters.

In the following we present the determination of risk provisioning in the lending business, which we have determined to be a key audit matter in the course of our audit.

Our presentation of this key audit matter has been structured as follows:

- a) description (including reference to corresponding information in the consolidated financial statements)
- b) auditor's response

#### **Determination of risk provisioning in the lending business**

a) As at 31 December 2023, a total of bEUR 45.2 in "Financial assets at amortised cost after credit loss allowances" are recognised in the consolidated financial statements of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG, which makes up 88.8% of total assets. The existing risk provisioning of mEUR 583 has already been deducted from these assets. Risk provisioning includes both individually determined stage 3 specific allowances of mEUR 414 and stage 1 and 2 credit loss allowances determined using a model-based approach of mEUR 169 that include a management overlay of mEUR 31 on account of the uncertainties regarding the further development of the US property market. Additional contingent liabilities and other commitments amount to bEUR 2.3, for which provisions of mEUR 6 have been made in the lending business, which fully relate to stage 1 and 2 portfolio allowances determined using a model-based approach.

The Bank assesses the recoverability of loans and advances in the lending business on a regular basis and whenever there are objective indications that the assets may be impaired. The expected stage 3 credit loss is determined based on individual cash flows in several probability-weighted scenarios. The amount of risk provision equals the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of the expected future cash flows. The latter is calculated based on the initial effective interest rate. The expected future cash flows take into account the marketability of collaterals such as land charges/mortgages. Where applicable, corresponding provisions are made for off-balance sheet transactions subject to either an imminent risk of utilisation by doubtful borrowers (guarantees, warranties) or to expected impairments due to payment obligations (irrevocable loan commitments).

Upon initial recognition of the loans and advances, the impairments in the lending business are based on expected credit losses for twelve months (stage 1). The twelve-month expected credit loss is that part of the lifetime expected credit losses that is equal to the expected credit losses from defaults that may occur statistically within twelve months after the reporting date. In case of a significant increase in the financial asset's credit risk within the context of subsequent measurement (stage 2), the impairment has to reflect the expected default events over the life of the transaction. For determining stage 1 and 2 credit losses, the Bank generally uses a model-based procedure based on the internal risk parameters (probability of default, loss given default) and on the rules agreed in the loan agreements underlying the loans and advances, such as contractually agreed cash flows. The internal risk parameters are transformed by taking into account forward-looking information. Stage 1 and 2 credit losses are measured using different scenarios weighted by their probability of occurrence.

## Page 170

As at the balance sheet date 31 December 2023, a management overlay of mEUR 31 was added to the stage 1 and 2 credit losses that was determined by taking into account the development expected by the executive directors of the Bank for the market values of the properties in the US portfolio in the form of increased losses given default. In addition, pbb makes a provision in the amount of the expected loss over the residual term for all US financial instruments with a current rating prior to 30 June 2023 by performing a collective stage transfer of these transactions in stage 2.

Given the fact that the lending business is one of the Bank's core business activities and both individual and model-based measurement of loans and advances as well as the determination of the settlement amount of provisions as is necessary according to the impairment rules under IFRS 9 requires the executive directors to make judgements and estimates, for example with respect to the design of the measurement models, estimates such as the expected future payments received, the measurement of collateral or other expected defaults, there is a higher risk that the amount of the credit loss allowances, if necessary, may not be appropriate. This matter was of particular relevance as part of our audit since the recoverability of loans and advances in the lending business and, in correspondence with that, the appropriate determination of allowances is prone to uncertainties.

The disclosures on the determination of allowances in the lending business can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in note 7 "Financial Instruments", subsection "Impairment", in note 29 "Judgements and Estimations", subsection "Allowances", as well as in note 50 "Financial Assets at Amortised Cost after Credit Loss Allowances (Including Claims from Finance Lease Agreements)", subsection "Development in risk provisioning".

b) Based on our risk assessment, our risk-based audit approach involved an examination of the relevant system of internal control and the performance of substantive procedures. The test of design and implementation and of operating effectiveness comprised the controls with respect to the processes for identifying indications for impairment (risk early recognition process), customer ratings as well as cash flow-based determination of impairment (stage 3 credit losses or specific allowances). Moreover, we conducted a test of design and implementation and of operating effectiveness of the controls with respect to the determination of stages 1 and 2 credit losses.

In addition, we conducted an evaluation of the appropriate identification of indications for impairment based on individual cases selected according to risk aspects, as well as of the measurement of loans and advances for which the Bank considered it necessary to carry out an impairment test, including the acceptability of the estimated values. Within the scope of this evaluation, we particularly reviewed those methods, assumptions and data used by the Bank for determining the estimated values. With respect to the measurement of loans and advances, we reviewed the underlying assumptions, especially the amount and timing as well as the discounting of expected future payments received in the different scenarios as well as their weighting. In this context, we also evaluated the measurement of collateral taken into account in the scenarios.

Furthermore, we traced the determined stage 1 and 2 credit losses based on a representative sample and evaluated the methodology for deriving the management overlay and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions, especially with respect to the identified credit portfolio and the adjustments of losses given default, in respect of the estimated values. In this context, our evaluation also took into account industry reports and research results from real estate market observation.

For the purpose of assessing the determination of stage 1 and 2 credit losses and assessing the measurement of collateral, we called in our internal specialists.

In addition, we audited the accuracy and completeness of the disclosures made in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
