## Page 91

### **MAPPING THE REPORT STRUCTURE TO THE MATERIAL TOPICS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 289C OF THE HGB<sup>1</sup>**

|                       | Report structure                          | Material topics                                                        |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| E<br>(Environmental)2 | Climate-related and environmental matters | Climate change mitigation in underwriting                              |
|                       |                                           | Support for climate action in asset management                         |
|                       |                                           | Climate action and environmental protection in Talanx's own operations |
| S<br>(Social)3        | Social matters                            | Responsibility to customers                                            |
|                       |                                           | Employee matters                                                       |
|                       |                                           | Human rights and supply chain5                                         |
| G<br>(Governance)4    | Governance                                | Governance in asset management                                         |
|                       |                                           | Data protection and cybersecurity                                      |

1 In addition, the Talanx Group reports voluntarily on the progress it has made in the areas of "social matters in asset management and underwriting", "corporate social commitment", "digital transformation", "compliance" and "supplier management".

"corporate social commitment", "digital transformation", "compliance" and "supplier mar

2 "E" comprises environmental matters (in accordance with section 289c of the HGB). 3 "S" comprises social and employee matters and respect for human rights (in accordance with section 289c of the HGB).

4

 "G" comprises anti-corruption and bribery matters (in accordance with section 289c of the HGB). 5 The Talanx Group still reports on progress made in this area; however, it is not a material topic as dened by the materiality analysis.

### **E – Climate-related and environmental matters**

### **Climate-related and environmental matters in asset management**

The Talanx Group's total investment assets for own risk amounted to approximately EUR 135 billion as at the end of the 2023 financial year. Of this figure, 81% was invested in fixed-income securities as at 31 December 2023, while equities accounted for roughly 1.2%. Roughly 4.6% of total investments were invested in real estate. The remainder was attributable to asset classes such as private equity and infrastructure, and to short-term investments and other investments.

The sustainability strategy for the asset management area aims to generate long-term capital growth on the basis of a broadly diversified, actively managed securities portfolio, while putting a particular focus on ESG criteria. The Talanx Group wants to avoid negative impacts from investments in issuers that are not sustainable, and also to have a positive impact on society and the environment. Its basic philosophy is that sustainable development can only be achieved if environmental, economic and social objectives are achieved simultaneously.

A Group-wide ESG screening process has been developed and implemented to facilitate this. The Responsible Investment Committee (RIC), which is chaired by Talanx's Chief Financial Officer, defines and regularly reviews the filter criteria used for screening, and makes individual decisions on whether to increase, retain or divest asset holdings. The use of the screening criteria and the engagement activities relate to the liquid asset classes of equities and corporate bonds.

The UN Global Compact's principles were specified as the initial screening criteria for investment decisions. In addition, the Talanx Group has expanded its filter catalogue above and beyond the environmental criteria anchored in the Compact, so as to exclude thermal coal. In line with this, it no longer invests proprietary funds in companies which, according to available information, generate more than 25% of their revenue and production from thermal coal. Existing  investments will be divested by 2038 as part of the Talanx Group's planned exit from thermal coal. A similar exclusion for companies that generate more than 25% of their revenue from oil and tar sands, which are particularly harmful for the climate and the environment, was also added to the filter catalogue. In addition, no investments shall be made in companies involved in new greenfield Arctic drilling projects. Therefore, the screening process excludes those issuers from investment that generate 10% or more of their revenue from offshore oil and gas extraction north of the Arctic Circle (66° 34' N).

The Talanx Group also signed up to the United Nations' Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2019, committing itself to observing the PRI's six principles for responsible investing, and incorporates these into its asset management processes.

The Talanx Group also discharges its responsibility as an investor by engaging in an active and systematic dialogue with individual issuers. This structured process starts by using objective criteria to identify those issuers in greatest need of engagement. These criteria include both all screening criteria already mentioned and particularly high carbon intensities or critical ESG ratings from leading external rating agencies. The expected effectiveness of engagement is then assessed for the issuers identified in this way, based on the size and nature of the investments, but also on regional and cultural aspects. Where the Talanx investments are sufficiently material, a dialogue is held between Ampega, the Talanx Group's asset management arm, and the issuers identified.

In parallel to its classic screening-/exclusion-based approach, the Talanx Group aims to continuously improve its sustainability policy. The carbon intensity of the Talanx Group's liquid assets for own risk in the equities and fixed-income areas (corporate bonds and covered bonds) was reduced in line with the climate strategy developed in 2021.

The Talanx Group's medium-term goal is to achieve a 30% reduction in the carbon intensity of its portfolio of liquid assets for own risk by 2025 compared to the 2019 baseline. This corresponds to an annual

## Page 92

reduction in its carbon intensity of roughly 7% and is an important part of the Group's long-term path towards becoming net zero by 2050. The Talanx Group hit its target in the reporting period, reducing its carbon intensity by 34% compared to the 2019 baseline.

In addition to reducing the carbon intensity of its investment portfolio, the Talanx Group is increasingly focusing on investments that combat climate change. Chief among these are investments in sustainable infrastructure projects. The Group has been investing directly in selected projects, supplying both equity and debt, for roughly 10 years via a dedicated unit that was specially founded for this.

Among other things, the infrastructure portfolio includes investments in wind and solar farms, power grids, hydropower plants, the digital infrastructure, and social and transport infrastructure projects in Germany and the rest of Europe. The Talanx Group has provided financing solutions for, or is an equity investor in, 23 wind farms, four of which are located offshore. As at the end of financial year 2023, the Group's portfolio included total investments in infrastructure transactions of approximately EUR 2.8 billion, with roughly EUR 1.2 billion of this figure being attributable to renewable energy generation infrastructure.

The European Commission has also prioritised the topics of climate action, environmental protection and sustainability with its Green Deal, and has resolved far-reaching measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.

The rules for sustainable finance that are being drawn up are initially designed to align financing activities with climate and environmental policy goals; additional sustainability goals are to follow.

At the heart of these rules is the Taxonomy Regulation – an assessment scheme in which the Commission provides binding technical details of which economic activities are considered to be environmentally sustainable. In other words, the Taxonomy Regulation creates transparency as to whether a particular economic activity makes a positive contribution to defined EU sustainability goals from the Commission's perspective.

In line with this, the Taxonomy Regulation is also a relevant transparency criterion for the sustainability of the Talanx Group's investments.

The key performance indicators (KPIs) for the EU Taxonomy are determined in accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. They have not yet been included in strategic decisions as there is still substantial uncertainty as to exactly how, and how broadly, to interpret them. Other approaches are used to manage the environmental sustainability of investments. Taxonomy reporting is designed to present the proportion of the Talanx Group's total investments under consideration (denominator) accounted for by environmentally sustainable (Taxonomy-aligned) investments and potentially environmentally sustainable (Taxonomy-eligible) investments (numerator).

Thus economic activities are defined as Taxonomy-aligned if the technical screening criteria that ensure a positive contribution to one or more of the six environmental objectives are met, if no significant harm is done to any of the environmental objectives, and if the minimum safeguards are complied with.

The denominator represents the investments reported in the balance sheet minus the Talanx Group's funds withheld by ceding companies. In addition, Article 7 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 specifies that all exposures to central governments, central banks and supranational issuers shall be excluded when calculating the denominator.

The numerator's evaluation horizon primarily includes investments in securities whose issuers that are subject to European NFRD (Non-Financial Reporting Directive) reporting requirements; property, plant and equipment; and loans to finance specific identified activities. The Group defines exposures to undertakings required to be excluded from the numerator in accordance with Article 7(3) of the Commission Delegated Regulation as including funds, investments in equity interests and special purpose vehicles, and liquid investments whose issuers are not domiciled in the EU. Where issuers are domiciled in the EU, a check is made as to whether they are obliged to publish non-financial information. In the case of funds, this represents a change in the methodology used compared to the previous year; as a result, investments in real estate funds of approximately EUR 1,753 million are no longer reported as Taxonomy- eligible in the numerator this year.

Data supplied by a third-party service provider and the results of internal screening are used to assist assessment in a substantial proportion of cases when checking the Taxonomy eligibility and Taxonomy alignment of liquid investments from issuers that are domiciled in the EU and that therefore potentially fall within the scope of the NFRD reporting requirements. In the case of issuers that are subject to NFRD reporting requirements, the Taxonomy ratios published in their non-financial reporting are used for the Talanx Group's investments. The ratios reported are also sourced from an external service provider and are manually entered there in those cases in which they do not form part of the data supplied.

As a basic principle, all investments in property, plant and equipment associated with the purchase and ownership of real estate are considered to be Taxonomy-eligible. This includes investment property. In addition, properties held are considered to be Taxonomy-aligned where compliance with the technical screening criteria (i.e. the "do no significant harm" criteria) and the minimum safeguards has been demonstrated. To date, no proof of Taxonomy-alignment could be provided for 94.7% of property investments. Property, plant and equipment that the Talanx Group acquires as part of infrastructure investments, and loans for which the economic activity that is being financed is known, are assessed internally for Taxonomy eligibility and Taxonomy conformity. The Group has no such data for 3.4% of assets, which therefore could not initially be reported as Taxonomyeligible or Taxonomy-aligned. Nevertheless, following a reasonable amount of effort it was possible to obtain information on the correct assessment for roughly 96.6% of the total volume of investments considered for the numerator. A conservative approach was taken in the case of the remaining 3.4%, which have been reported as Taxonomynon- eligible in the reporting period. The Talanx Group is endeavour

## Page 93

ing to successively increase data quality and data coverage, and expects to see a further improvement in the information base going forward, helped among other things by the ongoing standardisation of reporting and by the extension of the regulatory reporting requirements.

The KPIs for the Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned investments and the other disclosures required can be found in the section entitled "Metrics and targets". At present, no property, plant and equipment or loans to finance specific identified activities relate to energy generation from nuclear processes or gas as defined in Delegated Act (EU) 2022/1214. The Group has a minor, indirect exposure to issuers from the utilities sector that it has not broken down individually in the Notes due to the low level of materiality involved. The draft Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) that were published at the end of December 2023 could not be taken into account in full because of the short notice and remaining regulatory uncertainties. Requirements that have not yet been met will be addressed over the course of the year.

The Talanx Group's Taxonomy-aligned investments primarily comprise liquid investments in companies that are covered by NFRD reporting requirements and that publish Taxonomy-aligned turnover and CapEx ratios. In addition, three properties held are included in the Group's Taxonomy-aligned investments. Since the requirement to report on Taxonomy alignment only applies to financial undertakings with effect from the 2023 financial year, the only data available so far for exposures to financial undertakings relates to Taxonomy eligibility. Starting next year, these issuers' Taxonomy alignment will be reflected in the numerator for the KPIs. The Talanx Group's international investment universe naturally leads to a large proportion of its investments being made in issuers that are not covered by the NFRD reporting requirements. In turn, this means that only a small proportion of its investments are Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomy-aligned. The numerator is broken down to the individual environmental objectives using the value of the Taxonomy-aligned investments as the denominator, since no uniform interpretation exists. It has not been possible to break down the Taxonomy-aligned investments to environmental objectives 1–2<sup>3</sup> in full due to the non-uniform publication of Taxonomy ratios for the counterparties to date. Since counterparty ratios for environmental objectives 3–6<sup>4</sup> were only reported for the first time this year, liquid investments can only be included starting in the next reporting period. Equally, the "acquisition and ownership of buildings" activity has only been defined for environmental objectives 1–2; as a result, no disclosures on Taxonomy-aligned property, plant and equipment can be made for environmental objectives 3 – 6.

Retail mortgage loans are also covered by the EU Taxonomy Regulation's Taxonomy eligibility and Taxonomy alignment assessment requirements.

We were unable to assess the Taxonomy alignment of private mortgage loans this year since the data required, and in particular the energy performance certificates for the portfolio of properties that have already been financed, was not available. The relevant volume is EUR 909 million. The data will be captured going forward in the case of new business.

#### **STANDARD TEMPLATE FOR THE DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE 8 OF THE TAXONOMY REGULATION (EU) 2020/852<sup>1</sup>**

| Row | Nuclear energy related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Yes/No |
|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| 1.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and<br>deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear<br>processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.                                                                                           | No     |
| 2.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new<br>nuclear installations to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district<br>heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using<br>best available technologies. | No     |
| 3.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear<br>installations that produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district<br>heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their<br>safety upgrades.                          | No     |
|     | Fossil gas related activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |        |
| 4.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity<br>generation facilities that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                                 | No     |
| 5.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation<br>of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                         | No     |
| 6.  | The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation<br>of heat generation facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.                                                                                                                                                          | No     |

<sup>1</sup> Nuclear and fossil gas related activities that were disclosed by the undertaking as Taxonomy-aligned.

4 Environmental objective 3: sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources; environmental objective 4: transition to a circular economy; environmental objective 5: pollution prevention and control; and environmental objective 6: protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.

<sup>3</sup> Environmental objective 1: climate change mitigation; environmental objective 2: climate change adaptation.

## Page 94

### **Climate-related and environmental matters in underwriting**

The Talanx Group's insurance services can have indirect environmental and economic impacts on sustainable development. The Company is aware of this, which is why it is continuously expanding its ESG approach in its underwriting activities as well. By signing up to the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) in May 2020, the Group has voluntarily committed to continuously improving the sustainability of its insurance business in line with the initiative's four principles. In other words, it aims to work together with customers and business partners to raise awareness of sustainability, identify and manage risks and develop appropriate solutions. The Talanx Group is partnering proactively with its customers during this transformation, so as to drive forward the economy's sustainable structural transformation.

This being the case, Group-wide underwriting restrictions have been introduced for thermal coal risks, among other things, mirroring the policy adopted in asset management. Since coal can only be phased out responsibly in the medium to long term, the Group's aim is to have removed all thermal coal infrastructure from its insurance portfolio by 2038. In 2022, the Talanx Group developed a multi-stage plan that sets out its exit from thermal coal by 2038 in greater detail. The plan aims to use thresholds to successively phase out existing risks from thermal coal infrastructure in the Group.

The Group is engaging in a cooperative and focused dialogue with the companies concerned in order to implement its exit plan. The objective is to transparently examine the companies' transformation potential together, so as to actively contribute to customers' sustainable development.

In addition to its restrictive underwriting policy for thermal coal infrastructure, the Talanx Group is increasingly concentrating on restrictions relating to insuring oil and gas projects. Initially, the main focus in this area was on excluding oil and tar sands, which are particularly harmful for the environment, with the goal being to reduce existing risks to zero by 2038.

Then, during the reporting period, the Group adopted a stricter stance on insuring oil and gas projects. The following additional Group-wide exclusions on an individual risk basis have applied since 1 July 2023: the Talanx Group will not provide insurance cover for new greenfield upstream oil and gas projects. This extends the existing decision, which was limited to the Arctic, to all regions. In addition, the Group will not offer insurance cover for new midstream projects for pipelines and tank farms (new and stand-alone) that are directly linked to greenfield upstream oil developments. Equally, it will exclude insurance cover for any stand-alone oil-fired power plants that were not under construction or operation as of 1 July 2023.

The Talanx Group is of the opinion that regions that play a particularly sensitive role in relation to nature conservancy and environmental protection must receive special treatment. As a result, it will not accept any new Arctic region oil and gas drilling project policies. The Arctic region is defined as the zone to the north of the Arctic Circle, which has a latitude of 66° 34' north of the Equator. This also includes the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in the United States.

However, in those countries in which thermal coal plays a particularly large role in the energy mix and where access to alternative energy sources remains insufficient, the Group's main focus is on accelerating the withdrawal from thermal coal and supporting the shift to renewable energy. In line with this, the Talanx Group will make a limited number of exceptions so as to permit insurance of new greenfield gas projects. These exceptions will be made on a case-bycase basis following an examination of the technical standards, provided that the project concerned supports the exit from thermal coal.

As an insurer and key partner for industry, the Talanx Group is monitoring all fossil energy sectors in dialogue with its customers, and is continuing its existing policy of consistently adjusting its underwriting guidelines in line with the risks involved.

In addition to its restrictive approach to fossil fuels, the Talanx Group is increasingly focusing on risks associated with preserving natural habitats and ecosystems. The Group is aware of its role and its influence with respect to the exclusion of particularly environmentally detrimental projects. For example, deep sea mining not only impacts ecosystems directly but can potentially also lead to the loss of unique biodiversity. This is why the Group excluded underwriting of deep sea mining project risks with effect from 1 July 2023.

The exclusions mentioned in this section apply to all Group risk carriers and companies over which Talanx exercises control. In the case of the Hannover Re Group, the restrictions apply to its facultative division.

The Responsible Underwriting Committee (RUC) sets the screening criteria and regularly reviews the underwriting policy. The RUC comprises the members of Talanx AG's Board of Management. Resolutions are incorporated in the underwriting guidelines at the level of the business segments and risk takers responsible for the businesses in question.

The Talanx Group is committed to the Paris Agreement on climate change and, in line with this, has adopted a net zero emissions target for its insurance portfolio by 2050. By doing so, it is expressing its obligation to protect the climate. The standard and methodological guidance published by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) and regulatory developments are being monitored and analysed closely, so as to ensure that an adequate methodology for managing the insurance portfolio by its carbon emissions is implemented in a timely manner. In the immediate future, the management approach for the underwriting area will continue to be based primarily on exclusions or underwriting limits for certain risks.

In its role as a leading industrial insurance and reinsurance group, the Talanx Group aims to act as a partner for businesses and to support them in their sustainable transformation to a low-carbon economy through constructive yet critical dialogue. On the one hand, it uses the opportunities it has to exert an influence when discussing risk with the companies that it insures. On the other, the Talanx Group's

## Page 95

engineering insurance business, for example, is constantly examining new, environmentally friendly technologies and their insurability – something that is a precondition for providing significant insurance protection for the shift to green energy that is required. The Talanx Group is already one of the most important (re-)insurers for renewable energy sources such as (onshore and offshore) wind power, photovoltaic plants, geothermal technology and hydroelectric power, as well as for specific transition risks such as those associated with heavy industry's transformation to green hydrogen. This means that it is well positioned to successfully support structural change in the economy by supplying suitable risk transfer products and associated risk analyses.

The Group is also continuing to embed sustainability aspects across the entire product offering for its German and international retail and commercial clients business. The products are being reviewed and optimised for their sustainability impact as part of this process. Life insurance operations are also constantly taking additional sustainability aspects into account. HDI Germany's new sustainable product offerings allow customers to choose from a variety of different sustainable fund products. In addition to establishing customers' sustainability preferences, customer advisory processes are used to provide comprehensive and meaningful information on the specific funds' sustainability objectives. Both customer preferences and strict sustainability criteria are taken into account when preselecting the funds on offer.

The EU Taxonomy Regulation represents another relevant transparency criterion for the sustainability of the Talanx Group's insurance portfolio. However, its definition of insurance activities only includes property/casualty insurance and reinsurance activities, and only refers to the environmental objective of "climate change adaptation". This means that it only takes those lines of insurance into account that explicitly insure climate change risks.

Primary insurance and reinsurance solutions covering climaterelated natural hazards such as flood and storm damage can help with climate change adaptation. Offering such primary insurance and reinsurance capacity increases resilience to natural disasters by providing cover to those affected and compensating them if they suffer losses. In addition, primary insurance and reinsurance offerings ensure that large projects can be continued and new technology can be developed, and hence sustainably promote economic growth. The Talanx Group's many years' experience of risk assessment and risk management help to identify new and future risks at an early stage, and to develop suitable risk transfer solutions.

The Taxonomy eligibility of primary insurance and reinsurance activities determines the proportion of economic activities described in the Taxonomy and the economic activities for which technical screening criteria have been developed. These criteria determine the material contribution to the environmental objectives set, prevent a negative impact on the environmental objectives and aim to ensure that the minimum safeguards are complied with. The proportions of economic activities determined by applying the screening criteria are Taxonomy-aligned and are required to be reported for the first time in the 2023 financial year. Since full reporting only started in the reporting period, the informative value of the KPIs is considered to be too low at present for them to be used as a management tool in decision-making and product development processes.

The EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts that build on it contain requirements and passages that make unambiguous, uniform interpretation and implementation difficult. When applying the full criteria developed for primary insurance and reinsurance undertakings for the first time, the Talanx Group took into account all official documents, FAQs and statements by the European Commission published in the period up to the preparation of the reporting, with the exception of the draft FAQs that were published at the end of 2023, which could not be implemented in full. For example, no weighted average of the KPIs from underwriting has been disclosed as yet. The Talanx Group will address the new requirements in depth in the course of the current reporting period. Due to this and to remaining uncertainties as to how the requirements are to be interpreted, it is to be expected that the assessment of the disclosures in accordance with Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation – and especially the assessment of Taxonomy eligibility and Taxonomy alignment – will be successively adjusted over time, and that sector comparability will only emerge gradually. What is more, as a primary insurance and reinsurance undertaking, the Talanx Group relies for an adequate evaluation of its Taxonomy alignment on large amounts of external data from its customers and business partners, a large proportion of which are not covered by European reporting requirements. In this context, substantial gaps in the data provided in connection with "do no significant harm" ("DNSH") information must be expected in some cases in the initial reporting periods. Additional information on our conservative treatment of these data gaps can be found in the descriptions concerned.

In its primary insurance and reinsurance business, the Talanx Group considers all turnover from Solvency 2 business areas described in Delegated Act (EU) 2021/2139 as Taxonomy-eligible in those cases in which direct cover of climate-related natural hazards can be evidenced. Such evidence is provided on the one hand by internal risk monitoring and on the other by concrete proof of a corresponding contract from the identified business area. In the absence of any additional information from the legislators, the Talanx Group classifies all other business areas that do not contain any direct climaterelated cover, or that are not described in Delegated Act (EU) 2021/2139, as Taxonomy-non-eligible.

This comprises the following products:

- (a) medical expense insurance
- (b) income protection insurance
- (c) workers' compensation insurance
- (d) motor vehicle liability insurance
- (e) other motor insurance
- (f) marine, aviation and transport insurance
- (g) fire and other damage to property insurance
- (h) assistance

## Page 96

Taxonomy alignment is shown by demonstrating compliance with the technical screening criteria designed to ensure the significant contribution made by reinsurance (economic activity 10.2; NACE code K65.2.0) and primary insurance (economic activity 10.1; NACE code K65.1.2) to the "climate change adaptation" environmental objective. After this, it must be shown that these activities do not negatively impact the "climate change mitigation" environmental objective and that the minimum safeguards criteria are met.

Delegated Act (EU) 2021/2139 sets out five dedicated technical screening criteria for reinsurance undertakings. These reflect business practices and processes that are considered by the legislature to be preconditions for being able to declare sustainable turnover within the meaning of the EU Taxonomy.

The Talanx Group's reinsurance activities use state-of-the-art modelling techniques for climate-related natural hazards. Please see the consolidated risk report for further information on how Talanx handles these risks.

The Group has put processes in place to ensure that material customer needs with respect to climate-related natural hazards are taken into account in reinsurance products. These products use risk-based pricing, which means that preventive measures taken to minimise the risks concerned (e.g. compliance with certain building standards) can be taken into account during pricing. In the case of obligatory reinsurance, only the proportion of portfolio premiums that complies with the technical screening criteria is disclosed as Taxonomyaligned.

The Talanx Group supports the development of innovative reinsurance solutions for climate-related natural hazards so as to accommodate customers' and society's growing needs in this area. These products use risk-based pricing, which means that preventive measures taken to minimise the risks concerned (e.g. compliance with certain building standards) can be taken into account during pricing.

Compliance with the technical screening criteria for the reinsurance business can be ensured using standardised processes, work instructions and guidelines. These apply to all reinsurance products (in both the obligatory and the facultative areas) that are considered in principle to be Taxonomy-eligible and for which a Talanx Group company serves as the risk carrier. When establishing the premiums for Taxonomy- aligned products, the Talanx Group uses its internal underwriting risk and classification processes and only takes into account those proportions of reinsurance products that cover the climate change-related hazards set out in Appendix A of Delegated Climate Act (EU) 2021/2139. These include wind-related natural hazards such as storms, water-related natural hazards such as floods and heavy precipitation, and temperature-related natural hazards such as heat waves and wildfires. Consequently, the turnover reported as Taxonomy- aligned in line with this method materially contributes to adapting to the dangers of climate change.

In the case of primary insurance undertakings, the Delegated Climate Act sets out the following five dedicated technical screening criteria:

**A pioneering role in modelling and pricing climate risk:** The Talanx Group's primary insurance activities use state-of-the-art modelling techniques for climate-related natural hazards. Please see the consolidated risk report for further information on how Talanx handles these risks.

**Product design:** In the case of its Taxonomy-aligned products, the Talanx Group offers either reduced premiums or extended insurance cover where specific preventive measures are taken. This is designed to enable customers to better assess and reduce climate-related risks and occurs at least once a year in direct discussions between the underwriter and the customer.

**Innovative insurance solutions:** The Talanx Group's Taxonomyaligned products are designed to provide policyholders with end-toend insurance protection. If a climate-related loss event occurs, the ensuing costs are borne.

**Data sharing:** The Talanx Group is in regular contact with government authorities and shares data if requested for the purposes of analysis, so as to promote knowledge-building about changes caused by climate change. This fully complies with the requirements of technical screening criterion 4.1.

**High service levels following catastrophes:** The Talanx Group has implemented strict standards for handling large loss events stemming from climate-related natural hazards, and supports its customers swiftly and fairly.

Within Primary Insurance, which is strategically heterogeneous, a questionnaire process has been used to survey all material relevant non-life insurance products that provide cover for climate hazards, so as to establish whether they and the turnover associated with them are Taxonomy-aligned.

The results of this analysis revealed that only a small proportion of products could be classified as Taxonomy-aligned.

To be able to disclose economic activities as sustainable within the meaning of the EU Taxonomy it must first be ensured that they do no significant harm to other environmental objectives. In the case of primary insurance and reinsurance activities, this proof must be provided for environmental objective 1, "climate change mitigation". This means that activities that have been disclosed as sustainable do not involve either the transfer of insurance for the extraction, storage, transport or manufacture of fossil fuels or the transfer of insurance for vehicles, property, plant and equipment, or other facilities and assets serving this purpose.

The Talanx Group has put processes in place to ensure that turnover that has been disclosed as Taxonomy-aligned does not contain any cover relating to fossil fuels as shown above. The Group depends on data supplied by its customers and brokers to identify such coverage

## Page 97

in its obligatory reinsurance activities (providing cover for large portfolios), and actively requests this information from them. Data gaps, which are significant in some cases, existed in the reporting period. The Talanx Group takes a conservative approach and reports portfolios for which no information is available as Taxonomy-noneligible. Increasing data coverage can be expected to influence the ratio of Taxonomy-aligned turnover disclosed in the coming years.

The Talanx Group is able to use its internal sector classification system for commercial customers when identifying turnover in its primary insurance activities so as to ensure that significant harm is avoided.

Economic activities that are to be disclosed as Taxonomy-aligned must be performed in compliance with the minimum safeguards criteria. In the absence of additional details on this topic from the European Commission, the Talanx Group bases its assessment on the recommendations contained in the Final Report on Minimum Safeguards published by the Platform on Sustainable Finance (PSF) in October 2022. This highlights the following four core topics that companies should take into account:

- human rights
- bribery/corruption
- fair taxation
- fair competition

The Talanx Group has implemented processes to ensure that it complies with all four core topics in its business activities. It is not aware of any incidents or pending proceedings for the reporting period that led it to expect a breach of the minimum safeguards.

The Taxonomy KPIs for reinsurance for the 2023 financial year contain information on the Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned turnover from economic activity 10.2 Reinsurance (NACE code K65.2.0).

The Taxonomy KPIs for primary insurance for the 2023 financial year contain information on the Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomyaligned turnover from economic activity 10.1 Non-life insurance (NACE code K65.1.2).

The mandatory template for (re-) insurance undertakings contained in Annex X of Delegated Act (EU) 2021/2178 was used to declare the turnover. The Talanx Group has not supplied any prior-year figures because the disclosures on Taxonomy alignment were determined for the first time. Equally, no prior-year figures have been disclosed for Taxonomy eligibility, since this was the first reporting period in which its revenue had to be reported in accordance with IFRS 17.

In line with the European Commission's draft FAQs, which were published on 21 December 2023, the Talanx Group is only disclosing those reinsurance premiums as Taxonomy-aligned that demonstrably serve to provide concrete cover for climate-related natural hazards (premium split).

In the primary insurance area, it was also possible at short notice to use information from natural hazards pricing and loss data to report that portion of the premiums that can be demonstrably and concretely allocated to cover for natural hazards (premium split). Following the premium split, the Talanx Group reports the "Named Perils" and "All Risk" products, for which HDI Global SE is the risk carrier, as Taxonomy-aligned. Ceded Taxonomy-aligned amounts are reported on the basis of their proportion of total insurance revenue. This calculation will be further refined in the coming financial year and expanded to include additional risk carriers.

In the case of both primary insurance and reinsurance, revenue identified as relating to fossil fuels is deducted from this revenue. The Taxonomy ratio represents the ratio of Taxonomy-aligned turnover (numerator) to total turnover for the non-life business (denominator).

The informative value of the Taxonomy alignment KPIs for the products from the Talanx Group, as an insurance undertaking, that are determined using this regulatory methodology is highly limited, especially in comparison to other sectors and in no way reflects the Talanx Group's sustainability credentials.

The Talanx Group is monitoring developments relating to Taxonomy reporting and will take them into account as it extends and enhances its reporting.

## Page 98

### **Climate and environmental protection in the enterprise**

One integral part of the Talanx Group's sustainability strategy is to manage, and as far as possible reduce, its own environmental footprint.

The Talanx Group does not operate any physical production facilities but rather offers insurance and finance services. As such, its operations by definition have less of an impact on the environment or the climate than, for example, manufacturing enterprises or companies that make heavy use of raw materials. Nevertheless, the Group employs roughly 28,000 employees at its locations around the world, and they consume energy and materials, take business trips and engage in remote working. In addition, the Group purchases products and operating materials that its employees need to do their jobs, such as office equipment, IT products and food for its canteens. Consequently, the Talanx Group is working systematically to implement its two main environmental objectives in its operations as well. These are:

- to remain carbon-neutral (including offsetting of remaining emissions) in Germany, where roughly 38% of the Group's staff are employed and
- to achieve net zero emissions at an operational level throughout the Group by 2030 at the latest (Scope 1, 2 and 3, including offsetting of remaining emissions)

To do this, the Group is steadily reducing its carbon emissions, uses energy and other resources as efficiently as possible, procures energy from renewable sources and offsets the remaining emissions in Germany using emission reduction certificates. In addition, it attempts to use water and paper responsibly, and to reduce waste.

The Talanx Group follows ISO 14064, the international greenhouse gas (GHG) standard. It built on this systematically in the 2023 reporting period to expand its internal framework for ensuring uniform data capture and reporting, and the quantification of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the Group. Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions, and Scope 3 emissions from business travel, fuel- and energy-related activities, paper and water consumption categories, are measured and reported in line with the reporting thresholds defined in the GHG Protocol's operating approach. Similarly, the data centre and remote working categories were added to Scope 3 in Germany in 2022 and expanded to cover international units in the 2023 reporting period. In addition, the 2023 emissions figures include emissions data for the business in Brazil and Türkiye that was acquired in the reporting period.

The reporting categories are defined as follows:

- **Scope 1:** Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the organisation (liquid or gas fossil fuels, owned and leased vehicles, and refrigerants emitted by cooling systems)
- **Scope 2:** Indirect emissions from purchased or acquired energy (electricity, district heating, steam and cooling water)
- **Scope 3:** Indirect emissions from business-related activities and supply chains (e.g. business travel or purchased goods and services)

Total emissions for the Group not including the Hannover Re Group amounted to 31,187 metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) in 2023; this corresponds to a drop of 34% compared to 2019. More specifically, 8,821 tonnes of this figure related to Scope 1 emissions and 9,739 tonnes to Scope 2 emissions. Total Scope 3 emissions amounted to 12,627 tonnes. The basis for the 2019, 2021 and 2022 reporting periods was adjusted to 47,196 tCO2e, 30,737 tCO2e and 30,714 tCO2e respectively due to better-quality data and adjustments made to the emissions factors for air travel (DEFRA).The fact that the reduction in emissions achieved compared to 2019 was largely maintained points to longterm effects caused by fundamental changes in working practices. In particular, however, it is due to the results of the continuing efforts to reduce the Talanx Group's environmental footprint.

### **Metrics and targets**

The following tables provide an overview firstly of the key objectives and measures and secondly of the Taxonomy KPIs for climate-related and environmental matters in asset management and underwriting.

In addition to the ESG KPIs presented here, the Talanx Group is currently working to develop uniform metrics and indicators for the Group, plus corresponding processes that will permit concrete management approaches for climate-neutral investment and insurance portfolios in line with the Paris Agreement's climate goals.

Material changes in the KPIs year-on-year are primarily due to the fact that the Taxonomy information reported by issuers made it possible for the first time to classify investments as Taxonomy-aligned. The Talanx Group assumes that the KPIs will continue to change in future reporting periods as more data becomes available.

The informative value of the Taxonomy alignment KPIs for the products from the Talanx Group, as an insurance undertaking, that are determined using this regulatory methodology is highly limited, especially in comparison to other sectors, and in no way reflects the Talanx Group's sustainability credentials.

The Talanx Group is monitoring developments relating to Taxonomy reporting and will take action where they become more important.

Due to the regulatory requirements governing how the KPIs are to be reported for financial year 2023, the information on Taxonomy alignment and Taxonomy eligibility relates to that portion of

## Page 99

turnover and capital expenses (capex) that is generated from Taxonomy-aligned, Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-non-eligible issuer activities.

At the investment strategy level, issuers' Taxonomy KPIs are taken into account during analysis. The Taxonomy Regulation has not yet had a strategic impact on the product design process.

### **GOALS AND MEASURES: CLIMATE-RELATED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS**

| Area                                                                        | Goal                                                                        | Key measures                                                                                                                                                                                 | Scope       | Status<br>in 2023     | Status<br>in 2022  | Status<br>in 2021  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| Climate-related<br>and environ-<br>mental matters<br>in asset<br>management | Net zero emissions by 2050                                                  | Reduce carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) by 30%<br>compared to 2019 baseline                                                                                                                  | Group-wide  | –34%                  | –20%               | –15%               |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Expand sustainable investments to<br>EUR 8 billion by 2025                                                                                                                                   | Group-wide  | EUR 11.3<br>billion 1 | EUR 7.9<br>billion | EUR 7.2<br>billion |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | ESG screening of investment portfolio                                                                                                                                                        | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Exit thermal coal by 2038; exclude companies<br>generating more than 25% of their revenue and<br>production from thermal coal and divest existing<br>holdings in such companies by 2038      | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Exit greenfield Arctic drilling: no investments in<br>companies that generate 10% or more of their<br>revenue from offshore oil and gas extraction<br>north of the Arctic Circle (66° 34′ N) | Group-wide  | Introduced            | –                  | –                  |
| Climate-related<br>and environ-<br>mental matters<br>in underwriting        | Net zero emissions by 2050                                                  | Reduce carbon intensity                                                                                                                                                                      | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Exit thermal coal and oil sands by 2038: reduce<br>thermal coal infrastructure risks compared to<br>2019 baseline                                                                            | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | ESG screening of insurance portfolio                                                                                                                                                         | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Increase premium volume for renewable energies<br>and green technologies                                                                                                                     | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Restrict oil and gas extraction project insurance                                                                                                                                            | Group-wide  | Introduced            | –                  | –                  |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Exclude insurance solutions for<br>deep sea mining projects                                                                                                                                  | Group-wide  | Introduced            | –                  | –                  |
|                                                                             | Expand sustainable insurance solutions                                      | Expand sustainable insurance solutions to<br>mitigate the consequences of natural disasters                                                                                                  | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Support the global shift to green energy by<br>providing insurance for renewable energies and<br>technologies                                                                                | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
| Operations                                                                  | Net zero emissions by 2030 (including<br>offsetting of remaining emissions) | Reduce GHG emissions compared to 2019                                                                                                                                                        | Group-wide2 | –34%                  | –35%               | –35%               |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Optimise energy consumption                                                                                                                                                                  | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |
|                                                                             |                                                                             | Increase use of renewable energy sources                                                                                                                                                     | Group-wide  | Ongoing               | Ongoing            | Ongoing            |

<sup>1</sup> The amount may change due to changes in interest rates and durations, the goal was initially reached in mid-December 2022. It was exceeded as at the 31 December 2023 reporting date, with the volume of sustainable investments totalling EUR 11.3 billion; without a change in the methodology the volume would also have been above the target figure, at EUR 9.5 billion. <sup>2</sup> Excluding Hannover Re.

² Excluding Hannover Re.

## Page 100

### **STANDARD TEMPLATE FOR THE DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE 8 OF THE TAXONOMY REGULATION (EU) 2020/8521**

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | %      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | in EU          |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| The weighted average value of all the investments of<br>insurance or reinsurance undertakings that are directed at<br>funding, or are associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activities relative to the value of total assets covered by the<br>KPI, with following weights for investments in undertakings<br>per below: |        | The weighted average value of all the investments of<br>insurance or reinsurance undertakings that are directed at<br>funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy-aligned economic<br>activities with following weights for investments in<br>undertakings per below:                              |                |
| Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 0.86   | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 845,973,746    |
| Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 1.45   | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 1,432,766,966  |
| The percentage of assets covered by the KPI relative to total<br>investments of insurance or reinsurance undertakings (total<br>AuM). Excluding investments in sovereign entities.                                                                                                                                              |        | The monetary value of assets covered by the KPI. Excluding<br>investments in sovereign entities.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                |
| Coverage ratio:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 100.00 | Coverage:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 98,880,731,891 |
| Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of denominator of the KPI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                |
| The percentage of derivatives relative to total assets covered<br>by the KPI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |        | 0.42 The value in monetary amounts of derivatives.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | 414,772,894    |
| The proportion of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive<br>2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                 |        | Value of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive<br>2013/34/EU:                                                                                                                                                                |                |
| For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 32.79  | For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 32,420,173,323 |
| For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 36.07  | For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 35,670,400,823 |
| The proportion of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings from non-EU countries not subject to Articles<br>19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets<br>covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                        |        | Value of exposures to financial and non-financial under-<br>takings from non-EU countries not subject to Articles 19a and<br>29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                                                                                        |                |
| For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 28.77  | For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 28,448,072,266 |
| For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 20.72  | For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 20,487,028,026 |
| The proportion of exposures to financial and non-financial<br>undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive<br>2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                     |        | Value of exposures to financial and non-financial undertak-<br>ings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                                                                                                                     |                |
| For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 5.62   | For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 5,555,644,537  |
| For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 15.48  | For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 15,310,269,468 |
| The proportion of exposures to other counterparties over<br>total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |        | 9.62 Value of exposures to other counterparties:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 9,509,470,850  |
| The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's<br>investments other than investments held in respect of life<br>insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the<br>policy holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated<br>with, Taxonomy-aligned economic activities:                   |        | Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking's investments<br>other than investments held in respect of life insurance<br>contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy<br>holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated with,<br>Taxonomy-aligned economic activities: |                |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 87.38  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 86,402,684,924 |
| The value of all the investments that are funding economic<br>activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible relative to the value<br>of total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                            |        | Value of all the investments that are funding economic<br>activities that are not Taxonomy-eligible:                                                                                                                                                                                             |                |
| Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 17.13  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 16,933,778,785 |
| Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 19.39  | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 19,168,683,270 |
| The value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy-<br>eligible economic activities, but not Taxonomy-aligned<br>relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                              |        | Value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy-<br>eligible economic activities, but not Taxonomy-aligned:                                                                                                                                                                               |                |
| Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 12.74  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 12,595,632,331 |
| Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 9.88   | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 9,773,934,625  |

<sup>1</sup> The proportion of assets of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy-aligned economic activities relative to the total assets.

## Page 101

### **STANDARD TEMPLATE FOR THE DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE 8 OF THE TAXONOMY REGULATION (EU) 2020/8521**

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                             | %     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               | in EUR        |  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|--|
| Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of numerator of the KPI                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                             |       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               |               |  |
| The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to financial<br>and non-financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a<br>and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by<br>the KPI:                                                                                           |                             |       | Value of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to financial and<br>non-financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of<br>Directive 2013/34/EU:                                                                                                                               |               |               |  |
| For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                             |       | For non-financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Turnover-based:             | 0.52  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               | 518,128,587   |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Capital expenditures-based: | 1.12  | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               | 1,104,921,807 |  |
| For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                             |       | For financial undertakings:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Turnover-based:             | 0.00  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               | 0             |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Capital expenditures-based: | 0.00  | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               | 0             |  |
| The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's<br>investments other than investments held in respect of life<br>insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the<br>policy holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated<br>with, Taxonomy-aligned: |                             |       | Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking's investments<br>other than investments held in respect of life insurance<br>contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy<br>holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated with,<br>Taxonomy-aligned: |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Turnover-based:             | 0.86  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 845,973,740   |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Capital expenditures-based: | 1.45  | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               | 1,432,766,960 |  |
| The proportion of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to other<br>counterparties in over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                          |                             |       | Value of Taxonomy-aligned exposures to other counterparties<br>over total assets covered by the KPI:                                                                                                                                                                         |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Turnover-based:             | 0.33  | Turnover-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               | 327,845,153   |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Capital expenditures-based: | 0.33  | Capital expenditures-based:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 327,845,153   |               |  |
| Taxonomy-aligned activities – provided "do-not-<br>significant-harm" (DNSH) and social safeguards positive<br>assessment:                                                                                                                                                                 |                             |       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Turnover<br>% | CapEx<br>%    |  |
| (1) Climate change mitigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Turnover:                   | 94.80 | Transitional activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 3.78          | 0.63          |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | CapEx:                      | 66.36 | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 24.00         | 12.05         |  |
| (2) Climate change adaptation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Turnover:                   | 0.16  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | CapEx:                      | 27.56 | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 0.06          | 4.62          |  |
| (3) The sustainable use and protection of water<br>and marine resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Turnover:                   |       | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |               |               |  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | CapEx:                      |       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               |               |  |
| (4) The transition to a circular economy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Turnover:                   |       | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |               |               |  |
| (5) Pollution prevention and control<br>CapEx:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                             |       | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |               |               |  |
| (6) The protection and restoration of biodiversity<br>and ecosystems                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Turnover:                   |       | Enabling activities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |               |               |  |

<sup>1</sup> The proportion of assets of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy-aligned economic activities relative to the total assets.

## Page 102

### **STANDARD TEMPLATE FOR THE DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLE 8 OF THE TAXONOMY REGULATION (EU) 2020/8521**

|                                                                                                                                                                    | Substantial contribution to climate<br>change adaptation |                           | DNSH (do no significant harm) |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                                                                                | Absolute premiums                                        | Proportion of<br>premiums | Climate change<br>mitigation  | Water and<br>marine<br>resources | Circular<br>economy | Pollution | Biodiversity and<br>ecosystems | Minimum<br>safeguards |
|                                                                                                                                                                    | EUR thousand                                             | %                         | Yes/No                        | Yes/No                           | Yes/No              | Yes/No    | Yes/No                         | Yes/No                |
| A.1 Non-life insurance and<br>reinsurance underwriting<br>Taxonomy-aligned activities<br>(environmentally sustainable)                                             | 1,179,053.90                                             | 3.53                      | Yes                           | Yes                              | Yes                 | Yes       | Yes                            | Yes                   |
| A.1.1 Of which reinsured                                                                                                                                           | 476,004.61                                               | 1.42                      | Yes                           | Yes                              | Yes                 | Yes       | Yes                            | Yes                   |
| A.1.2 Of which stemming from<br>reinsurance activity                                                                                                               | 1,020,691.76                                             | 3.05                      | Yes                           | Yes                              | Yes                 | Yes       | Yes                            | Yes                   |
| A.1.2.1 Of which reinsured<br>(retrocession)                                                                                                                       | 440,825.77                                               | 1.32                      | Yes                           | Yes                              | Yes                 | Yes       | Yes                            | Yes                   |
| A.2 Non-life insurance and<br>reinsurance underwriting<br>Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) | 19,700,009.75                                            | 58.95                     |                               |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |
| B. Non-life insurance and<br>reinsurance underwriting<br>Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                          | 12,537,237.22                                            | 37.52                     |                               |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |
| Total (A.1 + A.2 + B)                                                                                                                                              | 33,416,300.86                                            | 100.00                    |                               |                                  |                     |           |                                |                       |

<sup>1</sup> The underwriting KPI for non-life and reinsurance undertakings.

## Page 103

### **S – Social matters**

### **Social matters in asset management and underwriting**

As a listed enterprise with roughly 28,000 employees serving customers in more than 175 countries around the world, the Talanx Group takes its social responsibilities seriously. This is why social aspects also play a role in its asset management and underwriting decisions.

For example, compliance with social standards and principles has been stipulated throughout the Group as a key filter for the ESG screening performed in the asset management area. In addition to complying with the social criteria set out in the UN Global Compact, the Talanx Group has systematically expanded its filter catalogue to include international social standards such as the conventions drawn up by the International Labour Organization (ILO), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Investments in companies involved in controversial weapons (such as anti-personnel mines) are also excluded. The Responsible Investment Committee (RIC) defines and regularly reviews the social screening and exclusion criteria used, and makes recommendations to the Group companies on whether to retain or shed investments, taking the economic interests of the community of insured customers into account. ESG screening is performed for the liquid asset classes of equities and corporate bonds.

The Talanx Group has made sustainable investments of EUR 11.3 billion to finance public infrastructure projects (such as hospitals and educational institutions), among other things. In addition, the Group invests in social bonds pursuant to the standards set out by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA). This illustrates the social dimension to the Talanx Group's investment policy.

The revision of the social focus of the Group's sustainability strategy led to the addition of the "promoting access to infrastructure" action area as a strategic social focus. Access to infrastructure is considered to have a social dimension because of its positive impact on society. This focus area comprises transport, energy, telecommunications, waste disposal, recycling, hospitals, universities and court buildings.

Social aspects are highly important for the Talanx Group in the underwriting area, too. By offering insurance services, the Group provides reliable long-term financial protection against a variety of life risks for people and companies around the world. The range of products offered in primary insurance covers existential risks for retail and commercial customers. In addition, reinsurance enables other insurance companies around the world to also offer such products.

Above and beyond this core role as a risk taker, compliance with international social standards and principles serves as a key decisionmaking and exclusion criterion when underwriting insurance risks.

Social aspects are also increasingly being incorporated into concrete solutions for products. For example, in life/health reinsurance, the Group is addressing the trend towards higher life expectancy and is supporting the development of innovative annuity products that are tailored to end customers' needs. In Germany, new essential abilities policies were introduced in the area of biometric risks products. Both term life insurance and occupational disability insurance have had a firm place in the Group's product portfolio for many years. What is more, by providing insurance solutions such as agricultural insurance and microinsurance, the Group contributes to social advances in underdeveloped regions. These offerings enable people without large financial reserves to insure themselves against basic risks such as the consequences of failed harvests and sickness.

The Talanx Group also takes on social responsibility in its advisory activities, by protecting customers against financial risks and supplementing or in some cases offering alternatives to public sector social security systems. In particular, the Group's life insurance products help relieve the pressure on social security systems.

### **Corporate social commitment**

Social commitment is a key area in which the Talanx Group can contribute directly to society and also promote employee involvement by providing publicity, and supporting volunteering and donations.

Social commitment was not identified as a material aspect during the materiality analysis. Nevertheless, the issue is important to the Talanx Group, which is systematically addressing and continuously enhancing it as part of its sustainability strategy.

The sustainability strategy review in 2022 created a uniform framework for the Group's social responsibility activities, among other things, and embedded this in the Group strategy. Consequently, projects addressing "diversity, equity and inclusion", the "employee journey" and "ensuring access to education" are given special consideration in the Group's social commitment activities.

Due to the Group's decentralised organisational structure and the deep roots that its local subsidiaries have in their respective locations, the individual subsidiaries and branches select their own projects and assign their own resources to them. Involvement takes many forms and is always tailored to local needs in the countries concerned. This allows the Talanx Group to have a positive impact on society above and beyond its own business activities.

### **Employee matters**

As Germany's third-largest insurance group with business ties in more than 175 countries, the Talanx Group is an important employer and provider of vocational training and continuous professional development, and hence has an impact on society. Due to the Group's decentralised structure and resulting local differences, the statements that follow focus on Germany, where roughly 38% of the workforce is employed.

## Page 104

Group Board of Management member Caroline Schlienkamp has been Labour Relations Director, and hence responsible for Group People & Culture, since 1 July 2022. The "HDI.X" people management strategy that was developed as part of the 2025 Group strategy was announced at the beginning of 2023 and is being promoted and implemented by Group People & Culture using a number of different measures. These form part of a four-pronged strategic approach: "Hire", "Develop", "Inspire" and "Xperience".

The Talanx Group's people management activities aim to provide the best possible support for, and to value, employees in line with the Group's Purpose, "Together we take care of the unexpected and foster entrepreneurship".

### **Talanx as an employer**

As an employer, the Talanx Group emphasises the need for a healthy work-life balance, providing support in this area through flexible working time models, opportunities for part-time work and a deferred compensation scheme, among other things. Additionally, remote working enables employees to be more flexible about where they do their daily work.

For many years now, the Talanx Group in Germany has also provided flexible and reliable childcare offerings, among other things. For example, the Company runs its own day-care centre in Hannover, helps to find kindergarten places, provides parent-child offices and offers a tax-free subsidy for children attending fee-paying facilities. In addition, a partner organisation offers staff assistance with homeschooling and (virtual and local) options for vacation and leisure time activities. A pilot project offered vacation childcare for employees' children at the Group's Hannover location in 2022 and the services were expanded in 2023. The Talanx Group also works together with another partner organisation to support employees who are having to juggle long-term care for relatives alongside their jobs, or who find that they themselves require care.

Employees in Germany can access a wide range of preventive measures as part of the Company's holistic health management programme, allowing them to strengthen their personal resilience. Services range from subsidised preventive health measures through advice on mental well-being down to addiction prevention. Additional offerings are available as part of tried-and-tested projects such as the HDI Health Year or individual health days on different topics. Employees who find themselves in stressful private, professional or health-related situations can obtain free, anonymous, professional counselling from an external service, and can also use a family service.

The Group's remuneration system comprises a performance-driven salary that matches the responsibilities involved, results-based payments and social benefits. Salary adjustments based on internal and external remuneration analyses ensure that the remuneration paid by the Group is competitive. At the Talanx Group, individual salaries depend on the function performed and the individual employee's professional qualifications and performance. In addition to assigning positions to the salary bands set out in the collective agreement for the insurance industry, a uniform, non-employee-specific evaluation

5

of all management positions throughout the Group is performed using the standardised Hay method.

The Group aims to ensure that its salary structure is not only performance-driven and responsibility-based, but also marketcompetitive.

In 2023, Talanx Group staff in Germany (not including the Hannover Re Group) had the opportunity to participate in Talanx AG's sixth employee share programme. A total of 39% of employees took up this offer, matching the good participation rates seen in recent years. Employees could choose flexibly between three different programme options, and received a tax-free subsidy of up to a maximum of EUR 1,440. This brought the total number of shares subscribed for in the six years in which the employee share programme has been running in Germany to 1,119,757. In addition, HDI Global employees outside Germany had the chance for the first time to participate in an international employee share programme in 2023. A total of 22% of employees took up this offer. All in all, 16,206 shares were issued to staff.

Staff satisfaction and identification with the enterprise are among the reasons for the moderate employee turnover rate of 7.6% and the long average periods (14.8 years) that staff in Germany (not including the Hannover Re Group) spend with the Company.

### **Employee recruitment and development**

The Group has been using a uniform employer brand, HDI Group,<sup>5</sup> for employer marketing in Germany since 2021.

The local human resources units are responsible for implementing recruitment. In 2022, a new Recruiting Centre was set up in Germany (not including the Hannover Re Group) to optimise and enhance recruitment measures; the new unit provides a one-stop shop for all recruitment activities including employer branding and sourcing. This speeds up appointment processes and ensures that different groups of candidates are addressed in a focused manner. The management of the recruitment process was enhanced in financial year 2023.

Cross-border talent recruitment is becoming an increasingly important issue. The Talanx Group's foreign units around the world recruit their own talent for their domestic markets. At the same time, the Talanx Group has included diversifying the recruitment basis in all countries and promoting international intercultural exchanges in its strategy.

Employee recruitment in Germany focuses on customising approaches for specific target groups, expanding social media activity, and ensuring attractive employer marketing. In 2023, social media campaigns were developed as part of the recruiting strategy to specifically raise awareness of career opportunities in the Talanx Group among younger age groups. Sources of information for students include job fairs, site visits and podcasts by former HDI Group students in Germany. Another goal is to cater better to potential employees' needs by optimising advertisements for part-time positions and expanding our

For the purposes of employer branding, the HDI Group consists of the Primary Insurance Group in Germany.

## Page 105

dual-track vocational training and degree courses, and our graduate trainee programmes. The HDI Group's strategic approach to recruiting talented young staff also extends to supporting students via a number of scholarship programmes such as the HDI Foundation and the "Deutschlandstipendium" scholarships. Financial year 2023 saw the launch of an additional internal development programme for student employees and interns, which is designed to provide effective support to talented students who have already been recruited.

Human resources development conferences are used to systematically identify and specifically develop the Group's high-potential employees and managers throughout Germany. The goal is to ensure that internal candidates can be appointed to vacant positions in the future. An annual succession planning exercise for the Board of Management, senior management and key positions means that vacancies can be filled rapidly. Our international units are also included in the search for suitable succession candidates. What is more, the human resources development conferences pay special attention to female high-potentials.

An objective selection process is used when filling vacant middle management positions, comprising aptitude testing and a variety of situation-based exercises that are monitored by multiple observers. This process is also used in other European countries. An external management assessment is performed before senior management positions are filled. This ensures an objective approach is taken to recruiting management staff at all levels.

Continuously growing and developing employees is extremely important to the Talanx Group. In a volatile world, the knowledge and skills that are needed are changing all the time. The Group is adapting to this situation by offering employees both classic learning formats and self-directed learning in line with their needs and interests, e.g. via access to a variety of digital platforms.

Not only do we provide a large number of offerings designed to enhance and expand employees' professional, linguistic and methodological expertise, we also focus on developing their interpersonal skills and on promoting a corporate culture than is based on respect. Changes in the working world, such as in the area of agile transformation, are accommodated using specially tailored course offerings. A variety of needs-driven programmes, which in some cases have an international reach, are available to support individual target groups including young professionals, selected high-potential employees, experts, and middle and top-level management. The Female Empowerment Programme aims to specifically develop women.

The multi-year "Together Leadership Journey", a Group-wide leadership initiative that focused on systematically embedding the management principles of transparency, commitment and collaboration, came to an end in 2023. Preparations for its successor format, the "Talanx Executive Campus" have begun.

The Talanx Group encourages all employees to say what they think and to provide honest feedback, without having to fear any consequences. For example, the Group offers a variety of instruments such as "Let's talk", the annual employee review procedure, or "LET'S GROW", the participatory development model that permits participants to obtain systematic feedback from colleagues.

The importance that the Group attaches to its feedback culture can also be seen from its "Organisational Health Check" (OHC), which was performed for the fifth time in a row. This polls Group employees about their views on the Group's culture and organisation, among other things. The OHC will be replaced in financial year 2024 by the engagement survey that was piloted in 2023.

### **Diversity, equity and inclusion**

For the Talanx Group, diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) are more than just material aspects of our corporate culture – they are also seen as an opportunity to leverage potential and contribute fresh viewpoints. The Group aims to recruit the most suitable staff possible and to retain them for the long term – regardless of their age, physical or mental abilities, gender and gender orientation, ethnic origin and nationality, social origin, religion or belief, or sexual orientation.

The Group has supported DE&I for over a decade now – ever since the Board of Management signed up to Germany's Diversity Charter. The Labour Director has been responsible for diversity, equity and inclusion since 2023. The fact that a Board of Management member is responsible for this topic demonstrates its importance within the Group.

Management of diversity, equity and inclusion has been systematically embedded in the Group's people management and business processes. This strategic focus is also underscored by the motto for the Group (not including the Hannover Re Group), "BeYou. Together we are traditionally different".

This commitment to DE&I and the strategy that has been resolved are expressed in a series of activities and measures that have already been launched, and are now being successively rolled out within the Group.

These educational and awareness-raising activities were continued in 2023 and included a digital training series on people with disabilities, DE&I workshops for the Recruiting function and a combined workshop and series of presentations on different generations.

The Talanx Group is also aiming to increase the proportion of women in management positions. In addition to its expanded range of training offerings, mentoring programmes and the "Women@Talanx" network, the Group has set itself the goal of filling half of all vacant management positions with women.

There are a number of networks in the Talanx Group relating to diversity, equity and inclusion: the "Women@Talanx" women's network, the "pride@hdi" international LGBTIQ\* network; an international DE&I community; the "HDI Starters Network" for vocational trainees and students; the "BIPoC@HDI" Safe(r) Space for and by Black People and People of Colour (BIPoC); "Parents@HDI"; and " Internationals@HDI".
