## Page 56

# <span id="page-55-0"></span>Supplementary disclosures pursuant to Sections 289a, 315a HGB

The following disclosures satisfy the requirements pursuant to Section 289a HGB and Section 315a HGB.

**1** The issued capital (share capital) at December 31, 2023 comprises 6,907,665 fully paid no par value technotrans SE are registered shares. Exclusively ordinary shares have been issued. The rights and obligations they carry are in line with the relevant statutory requirements, taking account of the requirements under the Articles of Association of technotrans SE.

**2** The Board of Management was not notified of any voting trust agreements between shareholders or restrictions on the transfer of shares.

**3** As of December 31, 2023 Teslin Capital Management BV, Maarsbergen, the Netherlands, and Luxempart S.A., Leudelange, Luxembourg, have shareholdings in the share capital of technotrans SE each exceeding 10 %. Teslin Capital Management BV reported a shareholding of 15.12 % on April 11, 2023. Pursuant to the voting rights notification published on March 9, 2022 Luxempart S.A. has a shareholding of 20.12 %. No other direct or indirect interests in the capital amounting to more than ten percent of the voting rights are known.

**4** All shares grant identical rights. No shares are equipped with special rights, in particular none imparting authority to control.

**5** Employees participating in the capital exercise their voting rights directly.

**6** The statutory requirements pursuant to Articles 39, 40 of the SE Regulation on the appointment and dismissal of the members of the Board of Management are applied. Over and above these, the provisions of the Articles of Association are to be observed. Over and above the requirement of Article 46 of the SE Regulation the Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Board of Management, as specified in the Articles of Association and Section 84 AktG, for a maximum of five years. To amend this point in the Articles of Association, pursuant to Section 179 AktG in conjunction with Section 21 (2) of the Articles of Association the Annual General Meeting must pass a resolution by a simple majority.

## Page 57

**7** The Board of Management is authorised until May 11, 2028 to acquire treasury shares of the company up to a total of 10 % of the share capital existing at the time of the resolution, or at the time of this authorisation being exercised if the latter figure is lower. If acquired by stock exchange dealings, the purchase price per share shall not exceed or undercut by more than 10 % the average Xetra closing price (or, insofar as the Xetra closing price serves as the basis for this authorisation, the closing price determined by a successor system taking the place of the Xetra system) on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days preceding the acquisition. If acquired on the basis of a public offer to buy, the acquisition price per share (excluding incidental acquisition costs) shall not exceed or undercut by more than 10 % the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the eighth to fourth trading day (in each case inclusive) before disclosure of the offer to buy.

The Board of Management is authorised to retire all or some of the treasury shares acquired on the basis of the authorisation, without the need for a further resolution of the Annual General Meeting.

The Board of Management is furthermore authorised to dispose of the acquired shares via the stock market or to third parties, by cash sale. In these cases the selling price shall not undercut the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the five trading days prior to sale by more than 5 %.

The Board of Management is, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, moreover authorised to dispose of the acquired treasury shares in a manner other than by sale on the stock market or by offer to all shareholders if they are offered and transferred to third parties in exchange for contributions in kind, especially for the acquisition of businesses or of participating interests in businesses or of other assets. The price at which the acquired treasury shares are surrendered to a third party shall not significantly undercut the average Xetra closing price on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on the last five trading days before the concluding of the agreement on the acquisition of the contribution in kind in question. The acquired treasury shares may also be used in fulfilment of obligations in respect of conversion options granted as a result of the issuing of convertible bonds.

The subscription right of the shareholders is excluded for the use of treasury shares in the last three cases.

Until May 17, 2023 there existed authorisations for the Board of Management to increase the share capital as well as to issue bonds with conversion rights. Please refer to the 2022 Annual Report for details. No use was made of these authorisations in 2023.

**8** There are no material agreements of the parent company that are conditional on a change of control following a takeover bid.

**9** No compensation has been agreed with the members of the Board of Management or with employees in the event of a takeover bid.

## Page 58

# Combined Non-Financial Statement of technotrans SE and the technotrans Group in accordance with Sections 289b ff., 315b ff. German Commercial Code (HGB)

Sustainable corporate governance is an integral component of the technotrans Group strategy Future Ready 2025. It is of fundamental importance for acquiring new customers, obtaining secure financing and being an attractive employer.

In publishing this section of its report, technotrans meets its obligation to disclose non-financial information for the 2023 financial year in accordance with the provisions of Sections 289b e HGB on the Non-Financial Statement, and of Sections 315b c HGB on the Non-Financial Group Statement and Non-Financial Group Report. Pursuant to Section 315b (1) sentence 1 HGB, this report applies to both technotrans SE and the technotrans Group. The purpose is to inform all stakeholders about the sustainable setup and about aspects that are relevant in that context.

We used recognised frameworks such as the German Sustainability Code (GSC) and the guidelines of the United Nations Global Compact (UDGC), as well as the EFFAS (European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies) performance indicators, as our basis in preparing the Non-Financial Statement. Additionally, technotrans reports in accordance with the requirements of the EU Taxonomy Regulation.

The Non-Financial Statement was reviewed by the Supervisory Board of technotrans SE.

# BUSINESS MODEL

The technotrans Group is a technology and services group with worldwide operations, with its head -specific solutions for thermal management. The Group parent is technotrans SE. A detailed description of the business model can be

# SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT

technotrans is exposed to a constantly changing environment. That also includes sustainable corporate governance requirements in respect of our stakeholders. We safeguard our long-term successful business development by maintaining a transparent and constructive dialogue and by approaching opportunities and risks responsibly.

At Board of Management level, CEO Michael Finger holds responsibility for the sustainable corporate governance portfolio. It is handled operationally by the Sustainability Management area.

## Page 59

An effective compliance and Risk Management System as well as an effective Internal Control System (ICS) assure the long-term viability and competitiveness of the technotrans Group by satisfying the legal requirements and contributing towards the attainment of achieve strategic targets.

All entrepreneurial decisions throughout the Group conform to the applicable laws as well as internal rules and voluntary commitments. We are a member of Blue Competence, the sustainability initiative of the German Engineering Federation. We mention especially our membership of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). This core worldwide initiative for sustainable corporate governance revolves around ten principles covering human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anticorruption. To embed this bigger perspective in the corporate culture at technotrans, the principles have been incorporated into the technotrans Code of Conduct, which is binding for all employees throughout the Group and serves as a corporate compliance guideline, As such, it constitutes a meaningful tool for implementing the sustainability strategy. In addition to setting fundamental standards for cooperation within the company, it defines how to behave towards external stakeholders. It also contains important regulations on issues such as occupational safety, data protection and IT security. All new employees receive a written copy of the code. Awareness of sustainability aspects is also raised through individual target agreements. Updates to the Code of Conduct and other compliance provisions are communicated via the e- technotrans out Group-wide. The current version of the technotrans Code of Conduct can be accessed on our website.

An effective compliance management system according to DIN ISO 19600 has moreover been implemented; the Board of Management bears overall responsibility for it. It is an effective means of assuring Group-wide compliance with statutory requirements and voluntarily adopted principles. The managing directors/general managers of the national and international Group companies are likewise obliged to uphold it and are supported in this by local compliance officers. The latter coordinate, train and monitor application of the compliance regulations and arrange updates as necessary, for example by revising organisational guidelines.

The whistleblower system is an important element of the compliance management system. It serves to identify and rectify breaches of applicable law and internal corporate guidelines. It also guarantees protection for the whistleblower against civil-law, criminal-law and internal consequences or reprisals. Within their respective responsibilities for compliance and supervision, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are informed regularly of current compliance topics through an annual compliance report, as well as directly if necessary. Regular checks are also conducted proactively.

A further important component is the Group-wide Risk Management System based on DIN ISO 31000. This helps technotrans to identify and respond early on to potential opportunities and risks in respect of sustainability aspects, for example. It involves regular, prompt reporting to the Board of Management, among other things. For further information, please refer to the sec

The German Supply Chain Act (LkSG) took effect on January 1, 2023. It requires sustainable and responsible entrepreneurial behaviour along the global value chain. Enterprises are expected to identify potentially negative effects of their activity on human rights and the environment, and if necessary prevent, remedy or mitigate the consequences of such effects. The obligations include for example guarding against child and forced labour and discrimination, protecting against land grabs, upholding labour and health protection, the right to fair pay and to create trade unions, and protecting

## Page 60

against environmental breaches. In order to promote the above human rights and environmental protection, the enterprises in question are obliged to meet defined due diligence obligations. These cover their own area of business, the actions of direct contractual partners in the supply chain and also indirect suppliers if any breaches involving them come to light. Enterprises thus bear responsibility along the entire supply chain.

technotrans has already been indirectly affected by LkSG since the 2023 financial year via a number of customers because the provisions of LkSG already applied from the time it came into force for larger enterprises with over 3,000 employees. From January 1, 2024 it also applies directly to enterprises with over 1,000 employees and therefore to technotrans. In order to handle the complexity of global supply chains and suitably implement LkSG and the due diligence obligations that follow on from it, our Group subsidiary gds has developed a software solution that enables technotrans to monitor supply chains effectively in terms of LkSG compliance.

## STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE

We regard the requirements of our stakeholders as highly relevant We identify the needs of key stakeholders through regular dialogue. We use a variety of information sources and dialogue formats to that end, differentiating between internal communications. The latter comprise communications with customers, press relations (PR) and investor relations (IR) activities.

The technotrans website serves as a key information medium for highlighting sustainability as an area in its own right. Internal communications take the form of interviews, intranet, e-mails, discussions and physical and virtual meetings. Employees receive regular updates across all locations, and where necessary are given training and encouragement to share their suggestions and ideas. In its dialogue with customers, technotrans emphasises its added value as an expert system partner for sustainable production processes. Initial contact with counterparts is often made at trade shows or in one-to-one talks.

The Investor Relations area is available to facilitate open-handed communications with private and institutional shareholders, investors and analysts. It can call upon Sustainability Management for specialist support as necessary. The dialogue is conducted in bilateral talks and at conferences and roadshows. technotrans pursues a transparent and open information policy with all stakeholders. The findings from these dialogues shape our business activities, the development of new products and services and our sustainability management work.

### MATERIALITY

Relevant sustainability topics for the technotrans Group involve on the one hand those that are crucial to business, and on the other hand those where technotrans can contribute to sustainable development. Activities that have a major impact on the use of resources, the environment and the climate are also relevant. Social aspects such as treatment of employees, regard for human rights and anticorruption measures are also key aspects of how we do things.

In the following, we present the key non-financial aspects for the technotrans Group that we have also identified from communications with our stakeholders.

Quantitative reporting uses for example the EFFAS performance indicators selected by the GSC, of which we report on 11 out of 16 on the basis of materiality. These indicators are supplemented by internal key figures that are rated as significant for the technotrans Group based on the materiality

## Page 61

analysis. They include the strategic sustainability goals as well as the reporting obligations under the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The scope of the key figures is regularly reviewed and gradually broadened. The development of the key figures over time forms the basis for targeted adjustments. A summary table can be found at the end of this report section.

Based on the principle of materiality, we report selected key figures such as energy consumption only for the domestic production locations and for the Taicang (CN) and Mt Prospect (USA) locations.

Image /page/60/Figure/3 description: The image shows a diagram of non-financial aspects according to section 289 c and 315 c HGB. On the left side of the image, there is a text "Non-financial aspects according to section 289 c and 315 c HGB" and a circular icon with a person inside. On the right side of the image, there are five icons with text labels. The first icon is a globe with leaves, and the text label is "environmental concerns". The second icon is a group of people, and the text label is "employee issues". The third icon is a handshake, and the text label is "social issues". The fourth icon is a hand holding a globe, and the text label is "respect for human rights". The fifth icon is a scale, and the text label is "fight against corruption and bribery".

## NON-FINANCIAL ASPECTS

### a) Environmental matters

Protecting the environment and climate is an ambitious but important challenge. In developing innovative solutions for its customers, technotrans makes a significant contribution to protecting precious resources throughout the entire product life-cycle. Sustainable environmental, energy and resource management is especially important at the production locations.

Alongside technotrans ments for products and their production process. They include the Ecodesign Directive and the F-Gas Regulation. technotrans always assures conformity at an early point in the process and sets itself the goal of reducing the environmental impact of its own activities and products beyond what is required by law.

This drive inspired the xtend product line in the ECOtec.chiller equipment family, for example, which systematically features power-regulated compressors, fans and pumps. This product line came as a timely response to growing demands for energy and therefore cost efficiency. It has been enthusiastically received by customers. In the ECOtec.chiller product family, almost two-thirds of equipment sold is a high-efficiency xtend version.

## Page 62

# Resource-light product development

Developing efficient systems and technical processes is one of technotrans is secured and steadily increased through partnerships with universities and research establishments. As a development partner, technotrans uses its innovative capability to find just the right solution in close collaboration with customers. Its aim is always to come up with products and processes that bring added value for technotrans -saving, environment-friendly features. The product development process is standardised and is controlled by means of defined stages, or quality gates. Especially for custom product solutions, it delivers the high quality standards, the cost and time savings for which technotrans is noted.

## Resource-saving products

technotrans Group solutions not only provide value added in the form of high quality and performance; they also bring environmental benefits. Examples include our innovations for electric mobility, the ongoing expansion of our ultra-energy-efficient product range and successive additions to the range of solutions that use natural refrigerants.

Electric mobility Electrification is the key to decarbonising the overwhelming part of the mobility sector. This is both a challenge and a huge opportunity. technotrans draws on its expertise in thermal management solutions in selectively and steadily expanding its product portfolio. Needs-based thermal management is indispensable for electrification applications in the mobility sector. For example, technotrans supplies temperature control for battery systems for road and rail vehicles and for highpower charging (HPC) stations and HPC parks. Wherever out-and-out electrification is stretched to the limit, hydrogen-based drive concepts represent an alternative. technotrans is developing thermal management solutions for this area too.

The 2023 financial year saw technotrans make its debut at the EV Trend Korea industry exhibition in Seoul, its first show appearance in the South Korean market. It presented solutions for e-mobility thermal management such as cooling modules for HPC charging stations and 850 Volt DC coolers. It also showcased cooling modules for megawatt charging systems (MCS). Compared to HPC, MCS have many times the charging capacity and represent the future standard for applications with high charging power, e.g. for buses, trucks and off-road vehicles.

In the electric mobility area of the growing Energy Management focus market, technotrans also secured two major contracts in the 2023 financial year. A leading German technology group placed an order for type e.cool charging-cable coolers that are used in rapid-charging parks in the United States and Europe and are the key to HPC over long periods almost without efficiency losses.

The second major contract was awarded by ADS-TEC Energy. For that contract, technotrans developed a custom cooling solution for battery-storage quick-charging stations. These permit highpower charging even if no high-voltage network is available for instance at filling stations and shopping malls or in company car parks. One of the main development challenges was to combine an ultra-compact design with a high cooling performance because the footprint is less than two square metres.

Environmentally friendly refrigerants Refrigerants are indispensable in active cooling systems. Conventional refrigerants often have the downside of high global warming potential (GWP). Most cooling circuits in technotrans equipment are hermetically sealed. However if cooling systems sustain

## Page 63

damage, refrigerant could potentially leak out. technotrans is therefore methodically conducting projects to enable it to offer natural refrigerants with low GWP in its products as alternatives to conventional refrigerants. We are thus demonstrating our environmental responsibility and pre-empting restrictions such as the F-Gas Regulation.

By the end of 2024 we aim to achieve an average GWP of 651 for the refrigerants technotrans uses. In the year under review, the PRO300 product line with a cooling performance of up to 4,200 watts for use in extra-compact analytics and medical technology applications was unveiled, with the natural refrigerant propane (R290) and a GWP of 3. Another new chiller product line that is available with the natural refrigerant R290 generated plenty of interest at the Fakuma industry exhibition. We presented a chilled water unit with a cooling performance of 100 to 1,500 kW, also available with energy efficiency module.

Depending on product mix, technotrans reported a slight rise of 6.5 % in the average GWP in 2023 compared with the previous year, to 1,065 (2022: 1,000). With the addition of natural refrigerants to the product range, this figure will come down more sharply in the future. In smaller performance categories, we already offer product solutions that actually run entirely without refrigerant and therefore no longer feature in the average GWP calculation. Reducing the absolute quantity of refrigerant used by adopting volume-efficient components is another measure that helps to minimise potential global warming effects.

Efficient heat and refrigeration technology As well as presenting the energy-efficient temperature control product line eco.line at KUTENO 2023, technotrans highlighted especially its expertise in energy-efficient commercial and industrial heat pumps and refrigeration plants, which can also be designed to run on the natural refrigerant R290 in all performance categories and across wide temperature ranges. So that refrigeration plant runs even more cost-effectively and is even more environment-friendly, a winter relief feature and integral heat recovery are also possible. Conversely, on heat pumps the cooled heat source can be used to support cooling applications in order to boost energy efficiency. The performance range available also includes high-temperature heat pumps achieving up to 165 °C as a means of raising residual heat to a process-ready temperature.

## Resource-light production

In terms of its own production operations, technotrans constantly seeks to use finite resources as efficiently as possible. Its declared aim is to reduce consumption of materials, water and energy. The employees are trained to treat resources with care and also encouraged to contribute their own ideas on how to do so. Environmentally harmful substances in production or in products are only used if they cannot be avoided; this also improves safety for all employees and customers. Such substances already in use are regularly examined and substituted where possible.

technotrans observes and complies with all applicable statutory requirements as a matter of course. New requirements and changes are therefore promptly incorporated into work instructions. The technotrans Group in the first instance manufactures equipment that conforms to the REACH regulation, the RoHS II Directive and CE identification requirements. Implementing special customer requirements in some cases calls for conformity with the RoHS II Directive including for products that are not actually covered by the statutory requirements. Suppliers, too, therefore need to give an undertaking not to use any environmentally hazardous substances as defined by the REACH regulation. technotrans furthermore expects them to comply strictly with the RoHS II Directive. The REACH and

## Page 64

RoHS II conformity of input materials is captured in ERP systems. Compliance with the requirements and therefore EC conformity is documented using the bill of materials for an end product.

location and across all production locations; it means we now supply our customers with purely digital technical documentation via the easybrowse platform created by the Group subsidiary gds GmbH. By using the platform, we can limit paper documentation to the minimum level of information required by law. The saving in the number of A4 sheets printed double-sided was increased from 1.3 million in 2022 to a total of more than 3 million in 2023. Digital documentation also enabled us to cut spending on binders, folders and printed matter and ensure that customers always have access to the latest version of documentation.

Other significant environmental aspects include the reduction of waste, recycling reusable materials and minimising water consumption. A total of 1023 t of waste and recyclable material was generated at our production locations in 2023, of which some 74 % (756.6 t) could be recovered and used for high-grade recycling. The overall amount of waste and recyclable material rose by 5 % (2022: 973.4 t). In revenue terms, a reduction of 4 % to 17 MWh per m was achieved (2022: 18 MWh per m).

Water consumption at our production locations increased by 14 % or 1,119 m³ in the 2023 financial year, and therefore amounted to 8,916 m³ (2022: 7,797 m³). Expressed as a ratio of consolidated revenue, prompted by retroactive capture of water consumption due to weighting performed by the water supplier in the previous year. One location for which elevated water consumption was recorded was extensively fitted out with drinking water dispensers for employees. Another major factor was the occupation of the new production location in Steinhagen. Despite the rise, technotrans sumption can nevertheless be considered to be very low overall. For technical purposes, water is required at test benches but this water is systematically recirculated, treated and reused. The greater part of the drinking water is consumed by employees and technotrans parable to that of office buildings housing a similar number of employees.

### Energy consumption

The efficient use of energy and the eco-friendly handling of resources are high priorities for us. We are therefore always looking for scope to improve the energy efficiency of our operating processes and products, and conduct the statutorily required energy audits according to DIN EN 16247-1 on a fouryear cycle. Some examples of how we cut our energy consumption in the 2023 financial year are the entire electricity requirements. We have also applied for a grant towards switching the lighting at Sassenberg to LEDs. The work will be carried out in the 2024 financial year. In the production halls at Meinerzhagen, the last bright radiators have now been replaced with dark versions. Although they still run on natural gas, they are now much more efficient. This change equally helps to cut our consumption of fossil fuels and therefore reduce carbon emissions.

In accordance with the materiality principle, the following data refers to the eight production locations of the technotrans Group and the energy sources power, natural gas and fuels, plus green hydrogen at the Holzwickede location.

Total energy consumption of 15.1 GWh in the 2023 financial year was lower than in the previous year (2022: 15.2 GWh).

## Page 65

The energy mix remained almost identical compared to previous years. Due to its low share of 0.3 %, hydrogen is not included in the following diagram.

Image /page/64/Figure/2 description: The image is a pie chart showing the breakdown of energy sources. Natural Gas accounts for 39%, Electricity accounts for 34%, and Diesel accounts for 27%.

## Aggregate energy mix across the locations

technotrans believes it is important to handle resources responsibly; that includes both the raw materials for products but especially the use of energy. The Future Ready 2025 Group strategy therefore includes the following defined sustainability goals:

- Electricity: increasing the share from renewable resources to 100 % by 2030.
- Fuel: cutting fuel consumption by an average of 5 % annually.

Power consumption in 2023 technotrans succeeded in reducing its power consumption slightly to 5.09 GWh (2022: 5.12 GWh). In revenue terms, it achieved a sizeable reduction of 10 % to 19 MWh per As a means of incentivising the expansion of renewable energy even before EEG electricity is taken into account, we seek to meet this consumption entirely from renewables; in keeping with our sustainability goal we therefore use both self-generated power at our locations and purchase certificates of origin from European wind and PV farms, paying an additional levy to promote environmental protection and nature conservation projects.

The PV system at the technotrans systems location in Baden-Baden was commissioned in the second half of 2022 and was operational for a full year in the past financial year. As a result, the amount of self-generated solar power increased year on year by 123 %, with the result that just under 6 % of total power consumption across all production locations was covered from self-generation. If power fed into the grid is also taken into consideration, the figure is actually 9 %. These levels are set to rise steadily over the coming years with the installation of PV systems at other locations and improved energy efficiency. In terms of our goal, we achieved a share of around 66 % for 2023 based on the definition stated, representing a year-on-year rise of 22 percentage points.

## Page 66

Image /page/65/Figure/1 description: The image is a pie chart showing the sources of electricity consumption. 34% is remaining electricity consumption, 57% is certificate of origin EU wind energy, 6% is photovoltaics (own consumption), and 3% is photovoltaics (grid feed).

### Status of ESG target: 100 % renewable power

Power consumption A further goal of the Future Ready 2025 strategy was to reduce fuel consumption by an average of 5 % per year, amounting to a target reduction of 25 % by the end of 2025. down 6.9 % on the previous year. Compared to the reference year 2019 with a specific fuel consumption of 20.0 technotrans has adopted measures such as increasingly hybrid working hours models, increased use of digital communication platforms, remote service solutions and field service management software in the service area to optimise itineraries. Since the target was defined, technotrans has therefore succeeded in decoupling revenue growth from fuel consumption and has achieved significant improvements. According to the target set in the 2021 reporting year, the vehicle fleet was to be electrified as far as technically possible and economically justifiable. The first electric vehicles are already in use at technotrans. However the global economy experienced shortages of materials and supply difficulties in 2022; these impacted the availability of electrified vehicles and their effect was still being felt in 2023. As a result of the continuing high demand coupled with a limited supply of electric cars, the current assessment is that the further electrification of the vehicle fleet is not economically justifiable. This development makes it necessary to acquire vehicles run on fossil fuels; the associated contracts therefore create lock-in effects for the medium term. From the 2023 reporting year, technotrans sets itself the goal of realising further efficiency improvements and generating added value by further reducing its fuelbased energy consumption as a proportion of revenue. technotrans will painstakingly monitor developments in the field of electric mobility and continuously assess its economic viability. The installation of a charging infrastructure was kicked off in the year under review of 2023 and its commissioning is scheduled for 2024. This will provide the framework for the continuing electrification of the vehicle fleet and allow it to be implemented swiftly once it is economically justifiable.

Gas consumption Natural gas is the third major fuel source at the locations and therefore among the drivers of CO2e emissions, which is why technotrans aims to successively scale back use of this fossil fuel. Year on year, consumption at our eight production locations fell to 6.0 GWh (2022: 6.1 GWh). Measured against revenue, this represents a notable reduction of 11 % to 23 MWh per €m (2022: 26 MWh per m). The factors behind the reduction in the fossil fuel natural gas included the completion of conversion work on the heating system in the production halls at our Meinerzhagen location and the inclusion of green hydrogen in the energy mix at our Holzwickede location for a first full year in

## Page 67

2023; the project only started in October 2022 and therefore affected energy consumption for only part of that year.

For the future, we would like to scale back natural gas consumption further by for example using a substitute fuel, modernising the heat generation and distribution system, and reducing thermal losses at the locations.

## Greenhouse gas performance of the technotrans Group

Climate neutrality technotrans supports the Paris Climate Agreement signed in 2015 with the aim of limiting global warming to no more than 1.5 °C. To complement the goals from the Future Ready 2025 strategy and based on the corporate carbon footprint, a roadmap was drawn up in 2022 to map out how to achieve climate neutrality at the eight production locations and in the sales and service units (SSU) by 2030. The primary ways of achieving this goal are by improving energy efficiency and generating renewable energy at the locations. In line with its goal from the Future Ready 2025 strategy to use 100 % renewable power at the production locations, technotrans also plans to buy in renewable power as necessary. It will then use certified climate protection projects only to compensate for the remaining CO2e emissions from 2030 on. This is how we are translating our responsibility to limit climate change into action.

Greenhouse gas performance One key matter that goes hand in hand with the use of fossil fuels is CO2e emissions. To be transparent and highlight progress for instance through the use of renewables, we have been reporting our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) since the 2021 financial year. The underlying reporting approach serves as our basis for clearly defined measures that will improve our performance.

Image /page/66/Figure/6 description: The image shows three icons representing different scopes of emissions. The first icon is a factory with two smokestacks, labeled "SCOPE 1" above the text "Direct emissions from sources owned by or within the scope of the company (e.g. operation of the company's own boiler or vehicle fleet)". The second icon is a lightning bolt, labeled "SCOPE 2" above the text "Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, steam, heating and cooling". The third icon is an airplane, labeled "SCOPE 3" above the text "All other indirect emissions related to a company's activities from the upstream and downstream value chain".

In view of the lesser relevance of the sales and service units for CO2e emissions (< 7 % in 2022), as is the case for energy consumption the following results refer to the eight production locations of the technotrans Group.

## Page 68

In 2023 the market-based<sup>1</sup> CO2e emissions caused by technotrans in Scopes 1 and 2 came to 2,816 t CO2e (2022: 3,097 t CO2e), which relative to revenue is a reduction of 17 % to 10.7 t CO<sup>2</sup> 13.0 t CO<sup>2</sup> Scope 1 emissions account for 77 % (2,174 t CO2e) of market-based CO2e emissions, and Scope 2 emissions for the remaining 23 % (642 t CO2e). Disregarding the renewable power purchased by technotrans (location-based view), the absolute emissions declined to 4,021 t CO2e (2022: 4,379 t CO<sup>2</sup> less CO2-intensive than in 2022. Specific CO<sup>2</sup> t (2022: 18.4 t)<sup>2</sup>. In the location-based view, the Scope 1 emissions are responsible for 54.1 % (2,174 t CO2e) of total emissions and the Scope 2 emissions for 45.9 % (1,847 t CO2e). The following summary shows the weighting and development of emission sources.

Image /page/67/Figure/2 description: The image shows the text "Market and location-based CO₂e emissions in t per €m of consolidated revenue".

Image /page/67/Figure/3 description: The image is a bar chart comparing the energy consumption of electricity, natural gas, and fuel in 2021, 2022, and 2023. The y-axis represents the energy consumption, ranging from 0 to 12. For electricity, the marked based consumption is approximately 4.8 in 2021, 4.2 in 2022, and 2.7 in 2023. The location based consumption is approximately 10.4 in 2021, 9.5 in 2022, and 7.2 in 2023. For natural gas, the marked based consumption is approximately 6 in 2021, 5 in 2022, and 4.5 in 2023. For fuel, the marked based consumption is approximately 5 in 2021, 4.7 in 2022, and 4.3 in 2023.

In the 2023 financial year, technotrans initially internally broadened the scope of reporting to include Scope 3. The project revealed potential for improvement especially in the quality of the data. This potential is to be realised in the 2024 financial year in order to create a suitable data basis for reporting Scope 3 emissions in the coming year.

<sup>1</sup> Market-based: emissions that include individual supply contracts and certificates of origin for power; location-based: emissions based on the electricity mix in Germany (electricity mix in Germany according to Agora Energiewende (2024): Energiewende in Deutschland: Stand der Dinge 2023. Rückblick auf die wesentlichen Entwicklungen sowie Ausblick auf 2024. [Energy transition in Germany: 2023 snapshot. Review of key developments and outlook for 2024.] P. 41)

<sup>2</sup> Emission factor for the aggregate electricity mix for all technotrans production locations: 126 g/kWh (market-based), 363 g/kWh (location-based)

## Page 69

# EU Taxonomy Regulation 2020/852

The goal of the EU Taxonomy Regulation is to classify economic activities consistently across the EU in terms of how they contribute to six defined environmental objectives, based on defined requirements. These environmental objectives are: (1) climate change mitigation, (2) climate change adaptation, (3) sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, (4) transition to a circular economy, waste avoidance and recycling, (5) pollution prevention and control, and (6) protection of ecosystems. Economic activities are taxonomy-eligible if they make a substantial contribution to attainment of one or more of the six environmental objectives Over and above the requirements of taxonomy eligibility, economic activities are taxonomy-conforming if they satisfy certain screening criteria. They must then not impede other environmental objectives. Moreover, minimum safeguards must be met. Reportable economic activities comprise revenue, operational expenditures (OpEx) and capital expenditures (CapEx), which are assigned to the above criteria.

Whereas it was merely necessary to report on environmental objectives 1 and 2 in the previous two years, this year reporting also had to cover taxonomy eligibility in respect of the remaining four environmental objectives. The economic activities that contribute towards these four environmental objectives according to the classification of the EU Commission as well as the corresponding technical screening criteria were published in the Annexes to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2486 dated June 27, 2023.

## Approach to the determination of key performance indicators

The basis for the reporting below is a reconciliation of the economic activities described in the EU Taxonomy with those of the technotrans Group. This serves as the starting point for discussions with the experts from each area in order to identify those activities for which the technical screening criping and the expert interviews refer to revenue, CapEx and OpEx.

The purpose of many of the products made by the technotrans Group is to reduce energy consumption and therefore also carbon emissions, as well as to enable applications in the area of electric mobility. In the drafting of the EU Taxonomy, mechanical and plant engineering (MPE) was not treated as a separate branch of industry. Some of the products of technotrans can be directly allocated above all to category 3.6 (Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies) of environmental objective 1 from Annex 1 of EU IR 2021/2139. The allocated products are high-efficiency versions that enable energy and emission savings compared with their standard version.

To identify the potentially taxonomy-conforming products that come under category 3.6, the portfolio was filtered for those solutions that demonstrably produce material efficiency gains and reduce carbon emissions compared with standard systems.

As the technical criteria for economic activity 3.6 from Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 require interpretation for them to be usable, ambiguities were addressed according to the following definitions:

- technotrans supplies its customers with individual product solutions. The comparison with the best alternative on the market required by the taxonomy is therefore not achievable. To enable it nevertheless, in each case we compare our standard product versions with our highefficiency product versions for the same applications.

## Page 70

- The taxonomy requires a material saving in carbon emissions compared with the benchmark but does not define that term more closely. For this purpose it was decided that this saving must be at least 20 % in a comparison of product versions.
- According to the taxonomy, screening must involve a life cycle assessment. Because the standard version and the corresponding high-efficiency version with which it is being compared are extensively identical in design and differ by merely a few components, the comparison of carbon emissions is based only on the components that differ and on the emissions

In addition to revenue from products that meet the requirements of category 3.6 in their own right, technotrans if a technotrans product is used in a larger product system that can in turn itself be allocated to a taxonomy-eligible economic activity. That is the case for various products in the Energy Management area, f -

Revenue was already generated from enabling activities in that area in the 2022 financial year. However due to regulatory ambiguity it was not included under taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-conforming revenue in the reporting for that year. Now that the EU Commission has addressed and resolved this ambiguity in EU IR 2023/2485 dated June 27, 2023, the applicable revenue is included in the reporting for the 2023 financial year.

Revenue of technotrans that can be classified as enabling taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-conforming because it is enabling technology can be allocated to the categories 3.18 (Manufacture of automotive and mobility components), 3.19 (Manufacture of rail rolling stock constituents), 3.20 (Manufacture of high, medium and low voltage electrical equipment for electrical transmission and distribution) and 6.14 (Infrastructure for rail transport). To that end revenue from suitable products is broken down and allocated to the relevant category based on target application.

EU IR 2023/2486 dated June 27, 2023, the annexes of which contain the technical screening criteria for environmental objectives 3 to 6, in addition identifies two further economic activities with regard to environmental goal 4 on which technotrans can report taxonomy-eligible revenue for the 2023 financial year. They relate to the categories 5.1 (Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing) and 5.4 (Sale of second-hand goods) from Annex II of IR 2023/2486.

An examination of taxonomy conformity was mandatory merely for environmental goals 1 and 2 in the 2023 reporting year. This extends beyond taxonomy eligibility and involves meeting further test criteria: technical screening criteria to demonstrate a substantial contribution to the environmental goal in question, DNSH criteria and the criteria for minimum safeguards. With regard to the analysis of compliance with statutory requirements at product and location level. While the examination of the DNSH criteria for the environment 2, 3, 5 and 6 is carried out at location level, environmental goal 4 is considered at product level.

For the minimum safeguards criteria, conformity was examined at Group level. Existing compliance management structures within the Group are used to examine and assure compliance, such as the whistleblower system, the binding Suppliers Code, the Code of Conduct for our employees, minimum standards in employment, risk management and supplier audits.

## Page 71

During the internally conducted analysis, contributions to environmental objective 1 "climate protec-
tion" and environmental objective 4 "transition to a circular economy" were identified.

### Taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-conforming economic activities

Revenue technotrans Consolidated Financial Statements principally under V. Notes to the Segment Report. It is possible to allocate taxonomyeligible and taxonomy-conforming revenue to several economic activities.

technotrans -carbon tech- -efficiency versions of products that lead to considerable energy savings in operation through the systematic use of performance-controlled components and additionally through the integration of free cooling to support compression cooling in central refrigeration systems. For some efficient product versions, compliance with the criteria as set out in the above interpretations of the technical screening criteria could not be clearly ascertained and for that reason they are identified as merely taxonomy-eligible.

For the economic activities 3.18 (Manufacture of automotive and mobility components), 3.19 (Manufacture of rail rolling stock constituents), 3.20 (Manufacture of high, medium and low voltage electrical equipment for electrical transmission and distribution) and 6.14 (Infrastructure for rail transport) pursuant to Annex I of EU IR 2021/2139 and IR 2023/2485, technotrans makes a significant contribution with enabling technologies in the form of heat management systems.

Through activities in the service area, technotrans contributes to the transition to a circular economy. These activities include repair services and the sale of remanufactured spare parts. The revenues from these activities are taxonomy-eligible pursuant to categories 5.1 (Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing) and 5.4 (Sale of second-hand goods) from Annex II of EU IR 2023/2486.

Operational expenditures (OpEx) expenditure captured in the Consolidated Income Statement that cannot be capitalised, or spending on research and development, building renovation measures, short-term leases, maintenance and repair as well as all other direct expenditure from the repair of property, plant and equipment to keep the taxonomy-eligible assets operational. No direct reference to the income statement is possible. This primarily covers research and development expenditure for currently or foreseeably taxonomyresearch and development projects included were to increase the energy efficiency or the use of low-GWP or natural refrigerants or avoid refrigerants in order to reduce CO2e emissions over the product life-cycle. There is also the development of solutions for battery-electric rail and road transport. Smaller amounts of expenditure in the area of e-

Capital expenditures (CapEx) The basis of the economic activities to be analysed comprises addi-7.7 million onomy-conforming capital expenditures are primarily the expenditures to create a charging infrastructure for electric cars at the Sassenberg and Mei duction location in Bad Doberan, to replace the diesel-powered forklift truck there (6.5, Transport by ] light commercial vehicles).

## Page 72

reported in category 7.3 (Installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency equipment) from Annex I of IR 2021/2139. The investment in energy-saving LED lighting constitutes such a taxonomyconforming activity. The completion of the changeover to an energy-efficient heating concept for production halls can also be reported as a taxonomy-eligible investment, pursuant to category 7.3 from Annex I of IR 2021/2139. For the latter, it was not possible to confirm beyond doubt that all requirements had been met, so this investment cannot be reported as taxonomy-conforming.

In addition, the optimisation of the PV system at the production location in Baden-Baden can be reported under category 7.5 (Installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and devices for measuring, regulation and controlling energy performance of buildings) pursuant to IR 2021/2139 because the measure increased the internal consumption rate of the solar power generated.

The following KPIs as well as the key figures in the following comprehensive reporting forms are correspondingly reduced in line with the descriptions.

## Page 73

# Share of revenue from taxonomy-conforming and taxonomy-eligible economic activities

| Financial year 2023                                                                                                 |          |                   | Substantial contribution criteria       |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|----------------|--------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--|
| Economic Activities (1)                                                                                             | Code (2) | Turnover (3) KEUR | Proportion of Turnover, year 2023 (4) % | Climate Change Mitigation (5) Y: N; N/EL | Climate Change Adaption (6) Y: N; N/EL | Water (7) Y: N; N/EL | Pollution (8) Y: N; N/EL | Circular Economy (9) Y: N; N/EL | Biodiversity (10) Y: N; N/EL | Climate Change Mitigation (11) Y/N            | Climate Change Adaption (12) Y/N | Water (13) Y/N | Pollution (14) Y/N | Circular Economy (15) Y/N | Biodiversity (16) Y/N | Minimum Safeguards (17) Y/N | Proportion of Taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or - eligible (A.2.) turnover, year 2022 (18) % | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) |  |
| Text                                                                                                                |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       | E                               | T                                   |  |
| TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                        |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |
| Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                                           |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                        | CCM 3.6  | 18.537            | 7.1%                                    | Y                                        | N                                      | N/EL                 | N/EL                     | N/EL                            | N/EL                         | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 12,0%                                                                                 | E                               |                                     |  |
| Manufacture of rail rolling stock constituents                                                                      | CCM 3.19 | 9.500             | 3,6%                                    | Y                                        | N                                      | N/EL                 | N/EL                     | N/EL                            | N/EL                         | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 0%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |
| Manufacture of high, medium and low voltage electrical equipment                                                    | CCM 3.20 | 6.815             | 2,6%                                    | Y                                        | N                                      | N/EL                 | N/EL                     | N/EL                            | N/EL                         | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 0%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |
| Infrastructure for rail transport                                                                                   | CCM 6.14 | 424               | 0,2%                                    | Y                                        | N                                      | N/EL                 | N/EL                     | N/EL                            | N/EL                         | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 0%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |
| Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                         |          | 35.276            | 13,5%                                   | 100%                                     | 0%                                     | 0%                   | 0%                       | 0%                              | 0%                           | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 12,0%                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |  |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                   |          | 16.739            | 47,5%                                   | 47,5%                                    | 0%                                     | 0%                   | 0%                       | 0%                              | 0%                           | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 0%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |
| Of which transitional                                                                                               |          | 0                 | 0%                                      | 0%                                       |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              | Y                                             | Y                                | Y              | Y                  | Y                         | Y                     | Y                           | 0%                                                                                    |                                 | T                                   |  |
| Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)                  |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |
| Manufacture of other low carbon technologies                                                                        | CCM 3.6  | 2.127             | 0,8%                                    | EL; N/EL                                 | EL; N/EL                               | EL; N/EL             | EL; N/EL                 | EL; N/EL                        | EL; N/EL                     | N/EL                                          | N/EL                             | N/EL           | N/EL               | N/EL                      | N/EL                  | N/EL                        | 0,8%                                                                                  | E                               |                                     |  |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                                   | CCM 3.18 | 2.629             | 1,0%                                    | EL N/EL                                  | EL N/EL                                | EL N/EL              | EL N/EL                  | EL N/EL                         | EL N/EL                      | N/EL                                          | N/EL                             | N/EL           | N/EL               | N/EL                      | N/EL                  | N/EL                        | 0%                                                                                    | E                               |                                     |  |
| Repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing                                                                           | CE 5.1   | 18.879            | 7,2%                                    | EL N/EL                                  | EL N/EL                                | EL N/EL              | EL N/EL                  | EL N/EL                         | EL N/EL                      | N/EL                                          | N/EL                             | N/EL           | N/EL               | N/EL                      | N/EL                  | N/EL                        |                                                                                       | E                               |                                     |  |
| Sale of second-hand goods                                                                                           | CE 5.4   | 95                | 0,0%                                    | N/EL                                     | N/EL                                   | N/EL                 | N/EL                     | N/EL                            | N/EL                         | EL                                            | N/EL                             | N/EL           | N/EL               | EL                        | N/EL                  | N/EL                        | 0,8%                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A2) |          | 23.730            | 9,1%                                    | 20,0%                                    | 20,0%                                  | 0%                   | 0%                       | 80,0%                           | 0%                           |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             | 0,8%                                                                                  |                                 |                                     |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2)                                                                  |          | 59.006            | 22,5%                                   | 67,8%                                    | 8,1%                                   | 0%                   | 0%                       | 32,2%                           | 0%                           |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             | 12,9%                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |  |
| TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                    |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |
| Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible                                                                                   |          |                   |                                         |                                          |                                        |                      |                          |                                 |                              |                                               |                                  |                |                    |                           |                       |                             |                                                                                       |                                 |                                     |  |

## Page 74

# Share of OpEx from taxonomy-conforming and taxonomy-eligible economic activities

| Financial year 2023 | Year | Economic Activities (1)                                                                              | Code (2) | OpEx (3) | Text                                                                                                            | Proportion of OpEx, year 2023 (4) | Substantial contribution criteria |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") |                              |            |                |                       |                   | Proportion of Taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) OpEx, year 2022 (18) | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) |   |
|---------------------|------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------|------------|---------------|----------------------|-------------------|--|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------|------------|----------------|-----------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---|
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          | kEUR     |                                                                                                                 | %                                 | Climate Change Mitigation (5)     | Climate Change Adaption (6) | Water (7)  | Pollution (8) | Circular Economy (9) | Biodiversity (10) |  | Climate Change Mitigation (11)                | Climate Change Adaption (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular Economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum Safeguards (17)                                                        | %                               |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                                    |                                   | Y: N; N/EL                        | Y: N; N/EL                  | Y: N; N/EL | Y: N; N/EL    | Y: N; N/EL           | Y: N; N/EL        |  | Y/N                                           | Y/N                          | Y/N        | Y/N            | Y/N                   | Y/N               | Y/N                                                                            |                                 |                                     |   |
|                     |      | Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)                                            |          |          | Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles                                           | 0,2%                              | Y                                 | N                           | N/EL       | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |  | Y                                             | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                                                                              | 0.0%                            | E                                   | T |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | Close to market research, development and innovation                                                            | 5.6%                              | Y                                 | N                           | N/EL       | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |  | Y                                             | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                                                                              | 6,0%                            |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A1)                                          | 5,7%                              | 100%                              | 0%                          | 0%         | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                |  | Y                                             | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                                                                              | 6,2%                            |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | Of which enabling                                                                                               | 0%                                |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 0.0%                                                                           | E                               |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | Of which transitional                                                                                           | 0%                                |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 0,0%                                                                           |                                 | T                                   |   |
|                     |      | 2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) |          |          |                                                                                                                 | 0%                                |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  | EL; N/EL                                      | EL; N/EL                     | EL; N/EL   | EL; N/EL       | EL; N/EL              | EL; N/EL          |                                                                                |                                 |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | OpEx of Taxonomy eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A2) | 0%                                |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 0,0%                                                                           |                                 |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1+A.2)                                                                  | 5.7%                              |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 6,2%                                                                           |                                 |                                     |   |
|                     |      | TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                     |          |          |                                                                                                                 | 94,3%                             |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   |                                                                                |                                 |                                     |   |
|                     |      |                                                                                                      |          |          | OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                        | 100%                              |                                   |                             |            |               |                      |                   |  |                                               |                              |            |                |                       |                   |                                                                                |                                 |                                     |   |

## Page 75

# Share of CapEx from taxonomy-conforming and taxonomy-eligible economic activities

| Financial year 2023 | Economic Activities (1)                                                                            | Text                                                                                                                               | TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES | Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned) | Code (2) | CapEx (3) | Year | Proportion of CapEx, year 2023 (4) | Substantial contribution criteria | Climate Change Mitigation (5) | Climate Change Adaption (6) | Water (7) | Pollution (8) | Circular Economy (9) | Biodiversity (10) | DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm") | Climate Change Mitigation (11) | Climate Change Adaption (12) | Water (13) | Pollution (14) | Circular Economy (15) | Biodiversity (16) | Minimum Safeguards (17) | Proportion of Taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) CapEx, year 2022 (18) | Category enabling activity (19) | Category transitional activity (20) |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------|---------------|----------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|------------|----------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
|                     | Environmentally sustainable activities                                                             | transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles                                                              |                              |                                                           | CCM 6.5  | 108       | KEUR | 1.4%                               |                                   | Y                             | N                           | N/EL      | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                               | Y                              | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y/N                     | 0%                                                                              |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | stallation of energy efficiency equipment                                                                                          |                              |                                                           | CCM 7.3  | 15        |      | 0.2%                               |                                   | Y                             | N                           | N/EL      | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                               | Y                              | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y/N                     | 0%                                                                              |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | stallation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles                                                      |                              |                                                           | CCM 7.4  | 58        |      | 0,7%                               |                                   | Y                             | N                           | N/EL      | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                               | Y                              | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y/N                     | 0%                                                                              |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | stallation, maintenance and repair of struments and devices for measuring, gulation and controlling energy erformance of buildings |                              |                                                           | CCM 7.5  | 10        |      | 0,1%                               |                                   | Y                             | N                           | N/EL      | N/EL          | N/EL                 | N/EL              |                                               | Y                              | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y/N                     | 0%                                                                              |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | apEx of environmentally sustainable activities taxonomy-aligned) (A1)                                                              |                              |                                                           |          | 191       |      | 2,5%                               |                                   | 100%                          | 0%                          | 0%        | 0%            | 0%                   | 0%                |                                               | Y                              | Y                            | Y          | Y              | Y                     | Y                 | Y                       | 7,6%                                                                            |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | Of which enabling                                                                                                                  |                              |                                                           |          |           | 0%   |                                    |                                   |                               |                             |           |               |                      |                   |                                               |                                |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 0%                      | E                                                                               |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | Of which transitional                                                                                                              |                              |                                                           |          |           | 0%   |                                    |                                   |                               |                             |           |               |                      |                   |                                               |                                |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 0%                      |                                                                                 | T                               |                                     |
|                     | Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities) | stallation of energy efficiency equipment                                                                                          |                              |                                                           | CCM 7.3  | 151       |      | 1,9%                               |                                   | EL                            | EL                          | EL        | EL            | EL                   | EL                |                                               | N/EL                           | N/EL                         | N/EL       | N/EL           | N/EL                  | N/EL              |                         | 1,4%                                                                            |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | apEx of Taxonomy eligible but not environmentally otaxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) stainable activities                         |                              |                                                           |          | 151       |      | 1,9%                               |                                   | 100%                          | 0%                          | 0%        | 0%            | 0%                   |                   |                                               |                                |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 1,4%                    |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |
|                     |                                                                                                    | CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible activities (1+A2)                                                                                       |                              |                                                           |          | 342       |      | 4,4%                               |                                   | 100%                          | 0%                          | 0%        | 0%            | 0%                   |                   |                                               |                                |                              |            |                |                       |                   | 7,6%                    |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |
|                     | TAXONOMY-NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES                                                                   | apEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible ctivities                                                                                            |                              |                                                           |          | 7.408     |      | 95,6%                              |                                   |                               |                             |           |               |                      |                   |                                               |                                |                              |            |                |                       |                   |                         |                                                                                 |                                 |                                     |

## Page 76

# Highlights of 2023 and outlook

Sustainable service technotrans is increasingly shifting to digitalisation for its service operations. The adoption of augmented reality (AR) headsets permits comprehensive remote service that benefits the environment and customers alike. The technology enables a swift response to many customer issues and therefore saves resources for any travel. Essential call-outs for service engineers are optimised using field service management software that compiles the most time-efficient and economical itinerary.

Electric mobility Having secured two major contracts for charging infrastructure cooling solutions, technotrans is helping to drive the switch to climate-friendly mobility. For example, ADS-TEC Energy is using technotrans cooling systems for its battery-based ultra-fast charging stations. technotrans also secured a major contract from a leading German technology group for the cooling of rapidcharging cables for use in rapid-charging parks in the United States.

Green hydrogen The H2HoWi pilot project, which was run jointly with Westnetz, demonstrates the technical feasibility of converting a natural gas main to purely hydrogen. From the end of October 2022, technotrans had been sourcing hydrogen to heat the Holzwickede location. The project reached a successful conclusion at the end of 2023 and its continuation is planned.

Photovoltaic systems Our PV system at Baden-Baden was in operation year-round for the first time in 2023. Over 252,400 kWh of green power was generated and used directly on-site. The PV system therefore covers 33 % of total electricity requirements. In accounting terms, including the 119,800 kWh of power fed into the grid, 49 % of electricity requirements were actually met with renewable power. At our location in Brazil, we installed a PV system that will prospectively cover the entire power requirements thanks to the many hours of sunlight.

Circular economy The switch to 100 % single-grade-recyclable forms of packaging material was achieved at a further location in the past year. Meinerzhagen now joins Sassenberg and Baden-Baden in using sustainable solutions for product packaging. Bad Doberan is currently also in the process of switching to single-grade-recyclable packaging.

Protecting natural resources The roll-GmbH across all technotrans locations was completed successfully. Building on the remarkable yearly saving of 1.3 million sheets of paper printed double-sided at Sassenberg alone, the annual saving has now reached 3 million pages.

## Page 77

### b) Employee matters, training and qualification

Committed employees with excellent skills are the bedrock of our success. We attach huge importance to targeted promotion and career development to ensure that our specialists and managers progress personally and professionally. We consider attractive development opportunities and a positive corporate culture to be very important. We encourage a work-life balance involving flexible working hours models and opportunities to work from home. Particular emphasis is placed on the training of apprentices at technotrans. We regard this activity as part of our social responsibility and an investment in the future. Apprentices and those on dual study programmes play a substantial part in the further development of our technology company.

## Employee structure of the technotrans Group

The following table indicates the employee structure of the technotrans Group:

|                                             |  | 2023   |      | 2022   |      |
|---------------------------------------------|--|--------|------|--------|------|
|                                             |  | Number | in % | Number | in % |
| Employees as of Dec. 31                     |  | 1,598  |      | 1,500  |      |
| Employees by segment                        |  |        |      |        |      |
| Technology                                  |  | 1,193  | 74.7 | 1,123  | 74.9 |
| Services                                    |  | 405    | 25.3 | 377    | 25.1 |
| Age structure                               |  |        |      |        |      |
| Employees up to 20 years                    |  | 114    | 7.1  | 84     | 5.6  |
| Employees 21 to 30 years                    |  | 310    | 19.4 | 305    | 20.3 |
| Employees 31 to 40 years                    |  | 385    | 24.1 | 373    | 24.9 |
| Employees 41 to 50 years                    |  | 327    | 20.5 | 312    | 20.8 |
| Employees over 50 years                     |  | 462    | 28.9 | 426    | 28.4 |
| Period of employment                        |  |        |      |        |      |
| up to 5 years                               |  | 760    | 47.6 | 694    | 46.3 |
| 6-10 years                                  |  | 269    | 16.8 | 245    | 16.3 |
| 11-20 years                                 |  | 272    | 17.0 | 268    | 17.9 |
| 21-30 years                                 |  | 229    | 14.3 | 226    | 15.1 |
| over 30 years                               |  | 68     | 4.3  | 67     | 4.5  |
| Employees by qualifications                 |  |        |      |        |      |
| Employees with vocational training          |  | 819    | 51.3 | 763    | 50.9 |
| Employees with an academic degree           |  | 315    | 19.7 | 319    | 21.3 |
| Employees with an engineering qualification |  | 232    | 14.5 | 220    | 14.7 |
| Employees without qualification             |  | 97     | 6.1  | 91     | 6.1  |
| Trainees                                    |  | 135    | 8.4  | 107    | 7.1  |
| Diversity                                   |  |        |      |        |      |
| Number of male employees                    |  | 1,287  | 80.5 | 1,205  | 80.3 |
| Number of female / diverse employees        |  | 311    | 19.5 | 295    | 19.7 |

## Page 78

Demographic change and the growing shortage of skilled labour represent significant challenges for human resources management. To avoid potentially negative consequences for the technotrans Group for instance in the form of unfilled positions, we strive for a consistently high proportion of apprentices. As part of our strategic human resources planning, we have also taken steps to guarantee optimum staffing levels to cover the future growth of the technotrans Group.

We offer our employees and juniors excellent prospects. We give preference to the recruitment of regions. High-potentials are specifically prepared for taking on wider-ranging specialist or managerial tasks through the #ttalents development programme launched in 2022. A further building block was added in the 2023 financial year in the shape of a new trainee programme for university graduates. The initial programme focuses on sales.

The number of apprentices rose significantly by 28 compared with the previous year. At December 31, 2023 the technotrans Group had 135 (previous year: 107) apprentices. The steepest growth occurred at technotrans SE, which had 90 apprentices at the balance sheet date (previous year: 59). The proportion of apprentices across the Group rose to 8 % (previous year: 7 %). The figure of 12 % at technotrans SE represents a significant rise on the prior-year figure of 9 %.

Apprentices are trained in 30 different vocations. To encourage specialist and personal exchanges, we enable our apprentices to take on assignments at different locations. On the one hand this acknowledges the growing importance of collaboration within the technotrans Group in order to achieve the goals of Future Ready 2025, and on the other hand it increases the appeal of our apprenticeships.

We have our own teaching workshops at our manufacturing companies. They include a special electrical training room for apprentices. By attending in-house instruction and training courses in various departments, our apprentices receive the ideal preparation for their future tasks. Our instructors, too, receive regular advanced training to ensure they are always up to speed. 29 apprentices successfully completed their training in the 2023 financial year. Of this total, 27 opted to accept permanent positions at technotrans. The retention rate was therefore 93 % (previous year: 83 %).

We offer former apprentices who have chosen to pursue a course of studies or higher school education the opportunity to work for us out of term. This way of maintaining contact with them puts us in a good position to take them on again after they have completed their studies or further training.

There were comprehensive training courses and further training conducted by internal specialists and external instructors in the 2023 financial year. The goal is to ensure everyone throughout the Group always has access to sound specialist expertise. Employees define their training requirements with their line managers at least once a year. Additional reviews can be arranged at any time. For furtherreaching measures Human Resources is brought in to plan tailored professional development. Annual planning talks are held between Human Resources and the heads of department to identify requirements. Priorities are set for the year in progress based on budgets. The measures are then assessed at the next evaluation. Employees of technotrans SE and gds can access the full spectrum of human

## Page 79

technotrans -wide through a new application.

Human resources development is a major component of the Future Ready 2025 strategy. As a strategic ESG target, it was therefore specified that human resources spending should therefore rise by 5 % annually. An increase of around 46 % compared with the base year 2019 means that we have already easily exceeded the strategic goal for 2025.

The regional composition of our workforce remained virtually unchanged from the previous year. In light of our Future Ready 2025 strategy, the proportion of employees at our international locations is likely to rise in the medium term.

Image /page/78/Figure/4 description: The image is a donut chart comparing data from 2022 and 2023. The chart shows the distribution of data across four categories: Germany, Other Europe, North-/South America, and Asia/Australia. For 2023, the percentages are: Germany 91%, Other Europe 3%, North-/South America 3%, and Asia/Australia 3%. For 2022, the percentages are: Germany 90%, Other Europe 3%, North-/South America 3%, and Asia/Australia 4%.

# Composition of Group workforce by location, 2023/2022 (%)

## Page 80

# Employee structure of technotrans SE

The following table indicates the employee structure of technotrans SE. It differs from the summary in the HGB annual financial statements.

|                                             |        | 2023 |        | 2022 |      |
|---------------------------------------------|--------|------|--------|------|------|
|                                             | Number | in % | Number | in % |      |
| Employees as of Dec. 311                    |        | 771  |        | 676  |      |
| Employees by segment                        |        |      |        |      |      |
| Technology                                  |        | 640  | 83.0   | 560  | 82.8 |
| Services                                    |        | 131  | 17.0   | 116  | 17.2 |
| Age structure                               |        |      |        |      |      |
| Employees up to 20 years                    |        | 77   | 10.0   | 51   | 7.5  |
| Employees 21 to 30 years                    |        | 177  | 23.0   | 160  | 23.7 |
| Employees 31 to 40 years                    |        | 162  | 21.0   | 149  | 22.0 |
| Employees 41 to 50 years                    |        | 146  | 18.9   | 132  | 19.5 |
| Employees over 50 years                     |        | 209  | 27.1   | 184  | 27.2 |
| Period of employment                        |        |      |        |      |      |
| up to 5 years                               |        | 422  | 54.7   | 329  | 48.7 |
| 6-10 years                                  |        | 100  | 13.0   | 97   | 14.3 |
| 11-20 years                                 |        | 108  | 14.0   | 103  | 15.2 |
| 21-30 years                                 |        | 114  | 14.8   | 122  | 18.0 |
| over 30 years                               |        | 27   | 3.5    | 25   | 3.7  |
| Employees by qualifications                 |        |      |        |      |      |
| Employees with vocational training          |        | 410  | 53.2   | 365  | 54.0 |
| Employees with an academic degree           |        | 130  | 16.9   | 124  | 18.3 |
| Employees with an engineering qualification |        | 102  | 13.2   | 94   | 13.9 |
| Employees without qualification             |        | 39   | 5.1    | 34   | 5.0  |
| Trainees                                    |        | 90   | 11.7   | 59   | 8.7  |
| Diversity                                   |        |      |        |      |      |
| Number of male employees                    |        | 625  | 81.1   | 548  | 81.1 |
| Numer of female / diverse employees         |        | 146  | 18.9   | 128  | 18.9 |
