## Page 34

The issues, risks, policies, and results associated with the respect for human rights and combating corruption and tax evasion are presented below. Given their regulatory nature, specific objectives and key performance indicators have been defined. However, these are not directly integrated into our Oxygen plan.

# **1. Respect for Human rights**

# **1. Issue, risk and policy**

The Group is attentive to compliance with human rights and fundamental liberties and to respecting International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions.

All the policies implemented by the Group's Human Resources Department, in accordance with the Group's culture and values, are designed to promote respect for fundamental human rights, as well as occupational health and safety, social dialogue and its employees' free speech. These aims are achieved through individual employee development initiatives and collective cohesion, as well as by phasing in annual performance reviews in every country across the world and promoting social dialogue through employee representation.

SAVENCIA is a member of the United Nations Global Compact which proposes a framework of voluntary commitments based on 10 principles relating to respect for human rights, international labor standards, the environment, and the fight against corruption. For over 20 years, SAVENCIA has been renewing its membership, thus reaffirming its commitments to social requirements and fundamental human rights in all the countries where it operates.

The Company's Ethics Charter "The Group and its culture," which expresses our values and identity, also restates the principles of the United Nations Compact.

The Responsible Purchasing Charter also covers issues relating to the promotion of and respect for human rights and labor laws. Through the deployment of this charter among its suppliers, the Company ensures that its human rights commitments are respected, to avoid any risk of infringement of fundamental human rights (see chapter "Promoting responsible purchasing").

# **2. Actions implemented and results**

In accordance with the law relating to the Duty of Vigilance of parent companies and contracting companies, a due vigilance plan is established annually to assess and thus prevent serious harm related to the Group's activities and those of its subcontractors and suppliers, whether with regard to human rights, fundamental freedoms, health, personal safety or the environment. This plan is available online on the Group's website.

) The Group Ethics and Culture Committee (GECC) is tasked with ensuring respect and sustainability of the Group's culture and in particular enforces ethical behavior in all activities within the subsidiaries. This committee's members include the Group's Chief Executive Officer, Secretary-General, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Chief Legal Officer, and Chief Financial Officer. The committee held four meetings in 2022. During its bi-annual meetings, issues relating to compliance and culture are addressed, along with any alerts raised, where applicable. Special purpose meetings may also be convened to cover any special matters that arise.

) Due diligence obligations are assigned to a dedicated Compliance Department function. The Group has thus confirmed its determination to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms to all parties in the value chain.

) The Group is committed to developing social dialogue, especially by setting up and leading collective employee representative bodies in its subsidiaries throughout the world. In keeping with the Group's values, it is important to foster direct dialogue with employees with the aim of respecting fundamental rights. An indicator has been set up to measure the rate of employees represented in these bodies.

) Based on the due diligence risk assessment performed at the end of 2022, work has been carried out to identify the salient risks generated by the Group's activities on the human rights of third parties and on the environment, and thus define the preventive and remedial actions implemented or to be implemented.

) In June 2023, a presentation of the Group's labor relations was made to the coordinating HR directors, who represent the different geographical areas in which our subsidiaries operate.

) A mandatory e-learning training program was created in 2023 to train or re-train all Group employees whose work implies engagement with compliance issues. Translated into 19 languages, it comprises a Duty of Vigilance module, an Anti-Corruption module, and an RGPD module (for the European scope). All new arrivals are trained in these Compliance topics.

) The mechanism for due diligence whistleblowing is made available to employees and external stakeholders through a single alert line called SARA – "SAvencia Recueille vos Alertes" – which is shared with the Corruption reporting system (see the "Combating corruption" chapter).

) Additional information is provided in the chapter on "Vigilance plan."

# 7 **Ethics and compliance**

# **3. Key performance indicators**

|                                                                                  | 2021                             | 2022 | 2023      | 2025<br>target |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------|-----------|----------------|
| % of employees with access<br>to collective employee<br>representative bodies ** | Information<br>not<br>available* |      | 80% 80.8% | 85%            |
| *Indicator created in 2022                                                       |                                  |      |           |                |

\*\*for subsidiaries with more than 10 employees

In subsidiaries with over 10 employees (the French threshold for setting up a Social & Economic Committee), the objective is to ensure that 85% of employees have access to a collective employee representative body by 2025, such as a work committee, works council, or Social & Economic Committee.

Other indicators are available in the due diligence plan.

# **2. Combating corruption**

# **1. Issue, risk and policy**

To avoid the risks of unethical practices, the fight against all forms of fraud and corruption is not only a regulatory requirement but a priority, rooted in our corporate culture.

Our action principles and rules of conduct are included in the Ethical Charter, "The Group and its Culture," provided to each new employee joining the Group.

The Group's Ethical Charter and internal control system help prevent and detect all forms of corruption. Certain countries are subject to special scrutiny on these essential points.

Honesty and loyalty are part of the Group's four fundamental values, and trust and mutual interest are at the foundation of the relationships the Group wishes to develop with its partners. Suppliers are therefore selected on the basis, in particular, of these values, via open and competitive bidding. The Group's subsidiaries undertake to:

) comply with international anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering requirements;

) combat fraud and corruption;

) comply with the principles of fair competition, within the applicable legal framework;

) promote their products and services in an honest and loyal manner.

In the framework of France's so-called "Sapin II" law, the Company has established a map detailing the risks of corruption and influence peddling incurred by the Group.

The objective is to identify, assess and prioritize corruption risks to ensure an effective and appropriate compliance program. The mapping is designed to inform management and provide it with the necessary visibility for implementing measures of prevention and detection proportionate to the issues encountered.

The Group's Risk Management & Compliance Department monitors those measures, assesses their effectiveness, and ensures that all new "at-risk" employees (as defined by Sapin II) are trained in ethics and fraud.

# **2. Actions implemented and results**

) The Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct was updated in 2023 to specify the principles and rules to be respected in terms of ethics and anti-corruption within the Group. It has been translated into 19 languages and applies to all Group employees.

) The e-learning course on anti-corruption awareness continued in 2023 for the employees concerned. It is part of the mandatory onboarding program for all targeted new hires.

) A Purchasing Code of Conduct sets out the rules that buyers apply with suppliers in four key areas: ethics and integrity, communication and collaboration, performance and progress, and sustainable and responsible purchasing.

) The whistleblowing system is operational with a special telephone number and email address. To guarantee the confidentiality and security of information shared, only four members of the Compliance Department, including the Chief Compliance Officer, are authorized to receive calls and view emails from these systems. If necessary, reports are then handled to guarantee a prompt and measured response. In 2023, a new informative poster was made to remind all employees of the Company's whistleblowing system, named SARA – SAvencia Recueille vos Alertes ("SAvencia Receives your Alerts"). It is translated in 19 languages and posted on all our sites.

) As part of the fight against bribery and corruption, compliance officers are responsible for overseeing implementation of the compliance mechanisms in all the subsidiaries.

) In accordance with applicable laws and regulations, the Data Protection Officer (DPO) is responsible for implementing the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and overseeing its application within the Company. Each of the European Union subsidiaries has appointed a GDPR correspondent who has been trained over the past two years by the DPO, as have the general managers. In addition, employees likely to be involved in data processing follow training in digital format. In 2023, 75.0% of employees affected were trained.

# **3. Key performance indicators**

|                                                                            | 2021  | 2022  | 2023  | 2025<br>target |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|-------|----------------|
| % of employees affected*,<br>trained on the concept of ethics<br>and fraud | 96.7% | 96.0% | 96.0% | 100%           |

\* Under the so-called "Sapin II" law.

The reassignment campaign for Compliance training modules was deployed in 2023 on the MySavencia platform. This rollout has been delayed, in particular for the last phase relating to Sapin II. This last phase is currently being assigned.

## Page 35

# **3. Combating tax evasion**

# **1. Issue, risk and policy**

Given the diversity of its geographic locations, the Group could be affected by risks related to tax evasion. However, its exposure is limited given the very nature of its activity.

Tax evasion consists in artificially subtracting sums or assets from the Group's tax liability by locating them in countries subjecting businesses to little or no taxation (such as the non-cooperative states and territories listed by the Council of the European Union, or countries charging little tax and not party to the OECD Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters).

In accordance with its values of honesty and loyalty, Groupe SAVENCIA, a family business, develops responsible, measured, and controlled tax and financial policies.

The Group ensures that its subsidiaries comply with local laws and maintains long-term, transparent relations with all partners.

Through its internal process, Groupe SAVENCIA ensures that it does not invest in any "non-cooperative" countries)1 . All tax, legal and cash management departments are responsible for complying with any and all applicable regulations.

# **2. Actions implemented and results**

) The tax department of the Finance Department also monitors and updates the list of non-cooperative states prepared by the Council of the European Union to ensure that the Group meets its obligations in this area. 2,3

) The Group's internal audit teams ensure that the procedures defined by the Group are properly applied when they perform reviews at subsidiaries.

) The Group deliberately does not have a taxable base in countries charging little tax and not party to the OECD Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters.4

) The Group's effective tax rate is higher than the weighted average of local tax rates incurred. In 2023, it stood at 32.2%.

# **3. Key performance indicators**

|                                                                                          | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|------|------|
| Number of non-cooperative states and territories* in which the Group operates            | 0    | 0    | 1    |
| * List published in the Official Journal of the European Union (C 413 I/3 of 12/10/2021) |      |      |      |

Since February 21, 2023, Russia has been included in the European Union's list of non-cooperative countries. The Group has been present in Russia for many years and continues to operate there with the objective of feeding the local population.

Image /page/34/Picture/16 description: The image shows a logo with a stylized orange teardrop shape on the left, containing a white number '8'. To the right of the teardrop shape, there is text in a dark teal color that reads 'Aptos Europe'.

Application of the European Taxonomy to SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy operations

# **1. Background**

# **1. Review of the regulatory framework**

EU Regulation 2020/852 of June 18, 2020, known as the "European Taxonomy Regulation," establishes a framework to encourage sustainable investment by requiring companies to publish the share of their revenue, capital expenditure, and operating expenditure that make a substantial contribution to any one of the following six environmental objectives:

- ) Climate change mitigation;
- ) Climate change adaptation;
- ) Protection and sustainable use of water and marine resources;
- ) Transition to a circular economy;
- ) Pollution prevention and control;
- ) Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.

The European Commission has defined a set of technical criteria for establishing a common language on the concept of sustainability and, consequently, channeling capital towards activities that contribute substantially to achieving one of these six objectives. In June 2023, the European Commission extended the scope of the European Taxonomy to the other four environmental objectives, thus bringing the six environmental objectives into force.

In 2024, companies must therefore disclose, for the 2023 financial year, the proportion of their revenue, capital expenditure and operating expenditure associated with "eligible" economic activities, i.e. those classified in the European Taxonomy. Since the 2022 financial year, companies are required to publish eligible KPIs, as well as the aligned proportion, i.e. meeting the sustainability criteria defined in the Taxonomy for the first two objectives of climate change mitigation and adaptation.

For these four new objectives, eligibility is only required in 2024 for the 2023 financial year.

To meet these reporting obligations, a detailed analysis of all SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy operations within the various consolidated entities was carried out collectively by the Financial, CSR, Industrial, Legal, Compliance, Insurance, and Tax Departments. The process of identifying the eligible activities and qualifying their level of alignment with the Taxonomy was conducted in accordance with the instructions and criteria detailed in the delegated acts.

An eligible activity will be considered aligned if it fulfills the technical criterion or criteria for a substantial contribution, if it does not cause significant harm to the other environmental objectives (the socalled Do Not Significantly Harm criteria – DNSH), and if it meets the minimum safeguards for human rights, corruption, taxation and competition.

# **2. Results**

# **1. Eligibility and alignment results for the 2023 financial year**

Eligibility and alignment results for financial year 2023:

The European Commission has prioritized industries that contribute the most to greenhouse gas emissions at EU level. As the food industry is not currently covered by the Taxonomy Regulation, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy's eligibility for the taxonomy is relatively low.

SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is committed to reducing its operations' environmental footprint and has made a number of investments to this end. The Group has also undertaken to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% for scopes 1&2 by 2025. Numerous actions are being taken in this sense (see section on "Reducing our GHG emissions"). In 2023, the Science Based Target initiative awarded SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy's reduction targets the grade of "well below 2°."

The data provided below, in application of the taxonomy regulations, are therefore not fully representative of the efforts undertaken by the Group. The level of precision required by the regulations is very high, and the reporting tools are at this stage not yet fully developed. The analysis of eligible activities for the 2023 financial year has modified the eligibility criteria to better integrate the adaptation objective and account for the four new objectives.

It should be noted that, as the reporting tool does not yet allow an investment to be linked to an adaptation plan, no contribution to the adaptation objective has been identified for this year.

Details of the indicators, evaluation methodology and definitions are provided in the appended methodological note on taxonomy.

# **Revenue indicator:**

Like in 2022, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has not identified any eligible revenue since its activity is not targeted by the Taxonomy Regulation objectives.

The Taxonomy Regulation does not consider the food industry as making a substantial contribution the six environmental objectives.

# 8 **Application of European taxonomy**

(1) (3) (4)Jurisdictions participating in the convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters status – September 13, 2023 https://www.oecd.org/tax/exchange-of-tax-information/Status\_of\_convention.pdf (2) https://www.consilium.europa.eu/fr/policies/eu-list-of-non-cooperative-jurisdictions/

## Page 36

As a result, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy's revenue is not eligible.

The regulatory table is appended to this document (cf Tables required under the Taxonomy Regulation).

Total revenue can be reconciled with the financial statements included in the 2023 annual financial report (see statement 1.1 of the consolidated financial statements).

## **CapEx indicator:**

Within the Group, eligible investments made this year cover three of the six environmental objectives (Mitigation, Water, Circular Economy).

### **Mitigation**

) 4.15 Heating/cooling networks

) 5.1 Construction, extension, and operation of catchment, treatment, and distribution networks

) 5.3 Construction, extension, and operation of wastewater collection and treatment networks

) 6.5 Transport by motorcycles, passenger cars, and light commercial vehicles

- ) 6.6 Freight transport
- ) 7.1 New building construction
- ) 7.2 Renovation of existing buildings

) 7.3 Installation, maintenance, and repair of energy-efficient equipment

) 7.4 Installation, maintenance, and repair of charging stations for electric vehicles inside buildings (and in parking lots attached to buildings)

) 7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings

) 7.6 Installation, maintenance, and repair of renewable energy technologies

### **Water**

) 2.1 Water production and distribution

### **Circular economy**

- ) 1.1 Plastic packaging manufacturing
- ) 2.2 Production of new water resources to ends other than human consumption
- ) 3.1 New building construction
- ) 3.2 Renovation of existing buildings

SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy's eligible capital expenditure for 2023 amounts to 12.65% of a total of €294 million (increase in gross CapEx without restatement of subsidies).

These amounts mainly relate to building acquisition (7.7), construction (7.1) and renovation (7.2). The aligned portion of these capital expenditures amounts to 0.8% and concerns investments related to activity 7.6 Installation, maintenance, and repair of renewable energy technologies.

With a similar scope, data for financial year 2023 remain consistent with financial year 2022.

The regulatory table is appended to this document (cf Tables required under the Taxonomy Regulation).

Total capital expenditure can be reconciled with the financial statements included in the 2023 annual financial report (see statement 3 of the consolidated financial statements).

For the 2023 financial year, Groupe SAVENCIA is taking into account all its capital expenditure, whatever the source of its financing, i.e. the value of its gross fixed assets. In 2023, given the turbulent and highly inflationary macro-economic context, the Group prioritized its most strategic investments.

## **OpEx Indicator:**

According to the Regulation, companies are exempt from their publishing obligation if the OpEx covered by the Taxonomy is not material. As such, the decision was taken to set a reasonable materiality threshold of 5% in light of market practices and SAVENCIA's understanding of the Regulation.

The demonstration of non-materiality was calculated by comparing the OpEx targeted by the Taxonomy with the total OpEx:

|                                               | 2022           |
|-----------------------------------------------|----------------|
| Total OpEx within the meaning of the Taxonomy | €132,511,414   |
| Total Group OpEx                              | €6,577,793,000 |
| OpEx Materiality                              | 2.0%           |

The regulatory table is appended to this document (cf Tables required under the Taxonomy Regulation).

Total capital expenditure can be reconciled with the financial statements included in the 2023 annual financial report (see statement 3 of the consolidated financial statements).

# **2. Methodology for assessing activities against the criteria**

To assess the current level of alignment of the activities identified as eligible, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has verified compliance with the technical review criteria for these activities and the minimum safeguards.

## **Substantial contribution**

For this reporting period, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy targeted the CapEx with the highest eligibility and alignment potential, while accounting for the materiality of the amounts.

With respect to the methodology applied for the alignment of activity 7.6, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has verified that the eligible CapEx are correctly described in the list of equipment contained in the substantial contribution.

## **Generic DNSH - Climate change adaptation**

To meet the DNSH criterion relating to the Taxonomy's objective of climate change adaptation, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy asked its insurer to carry out a study of physical climate risks covering all entities and geographical locations. This analysis integrates different climate scenarios and provides a medium- and long-term vision.

The report details the various risks by site and by region, as well as the adaptation recommendations to be implemented to mitigate these risks. SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has launched adaptation measures to address the risks identified. In the light of this analysis, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy felt it met the DNSH adaptation criteria for this reporting period.

## **Minimum safeguards**

SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy carried out a central review of the minimum safeguards by means of workshops with the relevant departments and concluded that the minimum safeguards are respected, especially through compliance with the non-alignment criteria and implementation of reasonable procedures and due diligence.

Furthermore, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is implementing the necessary processes to validate the rest of the non-alignment criteria. These processes are summarized below:

) To meet the minimum safeguards in terms of **human rights,**  SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy uses a set of human rights policies presented in this document (refer to the chapter on "Respecting human rights") and in its vigilance plan.

) For **corruption** matters, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy relies on a comprehensive system, in line with the requirements of the "Sapin II" law, for identifying corruption risks, prevention policies and whistleblowing processes. This system is deployed across all activities in France and internationally, and detailed in the "Combating corruption" chapter of this document.

) With respect to **taxation**, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is committed to complying with local legislation in all the countries in which it operates, and has chosen not to invest in all the socalled "non-cooperative" countries (see chapter "Combating tax evasion").

) On **competition law,** SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is deploying several measures: training in competition law issues, and the provision of an Ethics Charter for employees (see "Combating corruption").

# **3. Perspectives**

# **1. Areas for improvement**

For the 2023 financial year, the analysis of eligibility and alignment with the European Taxonomy has identified areas for improvement for future Taxonomy reporting exercises. SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has identified several actions to be implemented in the coming years:

) Improving the feedback of technical information to facilitate the collection of data specific to the Taxonomy. This will involve ongoing training for the teams involved in collecting the information required by the European Green Taxonomy;

) Valuation of investments made as part of adaptation plans.

## Page 37

72 | Savencia Fromage & Dairy 2023 Annual Report | 73

|  | KPI                                                                                                                                                         | 2022  | 2023  | 2025 Target | Progress |
|--|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|-------------|----------|
|  | <b>and responsible eating</b>                                                                                                                               |       |       |             |          |
|  | % of new branded products having adopted<br>a Clean Label appr                                                                                              | 75.4% | 88.1% | 100%        | ↗        |
|  | % of branded retail products including per-<br>portion nutrition labeling                                                                                   | 59.6% | 71.8% | 100%        | ↗        |
|  | <b>ure</b>                                                                                                                                                  |       |       |             |          |
|  | Expand the "Charter for Best Farming<br>Practices" worldwide (% total milk sourced)                                                                         | 86.8% | 81.3% | 100%        | ↘        |
|  | Deploy the Sustainable Milk Production<br>diagnosis (% total milk sourced *)                                                                                | 23.8% | 25.6% | 50%         | ↗        |
|  | % of Dairy Supply employees at SAVENCIA<br>sites trained on animal welfare.                                                                                 | 61.5% | 69.0% | 100%        | ↗        |
|  | % of Group external expenditure overseen<br>by the Purchasing function and carried out<br>with major suppliers* under the Responsible<br>Purchasing Charter | 66.8% | 73.0% | 80%         | ↗        |
|  | % of Group external expenditure overseen<br>by the Purchasing function and carried<br>out with major suppliers* under EcoVadis<br>evaluations               | 75.7% | 80.8% | 80%         | ↗        |

| Key issues                                                                                          | KPI                                                                                                                                                         | 2022     | 2023     | 2025<br>Target  | Progress |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|-----------------|----------|
| Healthy, delicious and responsible eating                                                           |                                                                                                                                                             |          |          |                 |          |
| Deploy a Clean Label approach on<br>100% of new branded products                                    | % of new branded products having adopted<br>a Clean Label appr                                                                                              | 75.4%    | 88.1%    | 100%            | ↗        |
| Implement clear nutritional<br>information for 100% of our<br>branded products                      | % of branded retail products including per-<br>portion nutrition labeling                                                                                   | 59.6%    | 71.8%    | 100%            | ↗        |
| Sustainable agriculture                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                             |          |          |                 |          |
| Expand the Charter for Best Farming<br>Practices to all our milk sourcing<br>worldwide              | Expand the "Charter for Best Farming<br>Practices" worldwide (% total milk sourced)                                                                         | 86.8%    | 81.3%    | 100%            | ↘        |
| Deploy the "Sustainable Milk<br>Production" audit                                                   | Deploy the Sustainable Milk Production<br>diagnosis (% total milk sourced *)                                                                                | 23.8%    | 25.6%    | 50%             | ↗        |
| Deploy our Charter for Animal<br>Welfare                                                            | % of Dairy Supply employees at SAVENCIA<br>sites trained on animal welfare.                                                                                 | 61.5%    | 69.0%    | 100%            | ↗        |
| Develop responsible purchasing<br>with all our suppliers, excluding<br>agricultural raw materials   | % of Group external expenditure overseen<br>by the Purchasing function and carried out<br>with major suppliers* under the Responsible<br>Purchasing Charter | 66.8%    | 73.0%    | 80%             | ↗        |
|                                                                                                     | % of Group external expenditure overseen<br>by the Purchasing function and carried<br>out with major suppliers* under EcoVadis<br>evaluations               | 75.7%    | 80.8%    | 80%             | ↗        |
| Environmental footprint                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                             |          |          |                 |          |
| Reduce greenhouse gas emissions<br>from production and transport                                    | Variation in Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions<br>(tons eq. CO₂/ton produced)                                                                                       | -10%*    | -16.5%   | -20%            | ↗        |
| Reduce the carbon footprint<br>associated with our milk sourcing                                    | CO₂ emissions of the owned fleet<br>(in tons eq. CO₂)                                                                                                       | -311,000 | -341,345 | -300,000        | ↗        |
| Reduce water withdrawals                                                                            | Variation of water withdrawals (in m³/ton<br>produced)                                                                                                      | -1.2%    | -6.5%    | -10%            | ↗        |
| Strengthen the sorting and recovery<br>of industrial waste by contributing<br>to circular solutions | % of non-hazardous waste collected for<br>recycling                                                                                                         | 68.2%    | 73.1%    | -               | ↗        |
| Develop eco-design of our<br>packaging                                                              | % of recyclable or biodegradable packaging                                                                                                                  | 84.8%    | 86.1%    | Aim for<br>100% | ↗        |

# **KPIs Overview SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy**

\*\* see corresponding chapter

## Page 38

Reporting rules have been defined in accordance with applicable standards and practices. The methodological assumptions used to define the social, environmental, and societal KPIs may be reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes in scope, regulations, and market interpretations.

SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy voluntarily publishes a Non-Financial Performance Statement (NFPS), drawn up in accordance with European Directive 2014/95/EU on the publication of non-financial information (NFRD), in compliance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. Data in the format of the previous "Grenelle II" regulations, useful for rating agencies, are available in a specific document that can be found on the savencia-fromagedairy.com website.

# **Organization**

The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) indicators are collected by the Group's business departments for their respective areas. They are supported by their network of local experts who contribute the raw data.

The Group's CSR Department is the preferred contact for the Company's external auditors.

# **Scope**

Data presented in this report are consolidated for 2023, from January 1 to December31, 2023.

) Healthy, delicious, and responsible eating: 100% of subsidiaries.

) Employee wellbeing: 100% of the workforce registered at the end of the period.

) Carbon footprint: 100% of production sites.

) Calculation of carbon footprint SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy: 100% of sites.

## **Rules and guidelines**

Two set of environmental and social reporting guidelines define the Group's environmental and social performance indicators. A methodological note outlines the process used by the Company to select the issues addressed.

These documents serve as repositories for the external verification of data, in accordance with the implementing decree of Article L. 225-102- 1 of the French Commercial Code.

## **Tools**

Data is reported and consolidated for all subsidiaries using a bespoke Group tool.

An annual questionnaire is sent to and completed by all subsidiaries within the CSR scope, covering all types of sites: production, logistics and sales. It collects all the required information.

## **Consolidation and internal control**

At Company level, CSR reporting managers consolidate the data collected to generate the indicators presented in this chapter.

They also carry out internal data checks, validating consistency and plausibility. To this end, consistency tests are carried out on indicators, and variations are highlighted and justified.

Significant discrepancies are analyzed with the data contributor.

## **External audit**

The nature of the work performed by the independent third party entity, and its conclusions, are presented in an appendix.

# 9 **Reporting procedures**

# **CapEx**

## **Definition**

Note that the FAQ published by the European Commission on December 19, 2022, on Article 8 clarified that the source of funding of the CapEx has no relevance for the purpose of assessing the Taxonomyalignment of that CapEx.

Eligible and aligned investments meet one of the following conditions:

) These expenses are linked to assets or processes associated with eligible economic activities and aligned with the Taxonomy;

) These expenditures are part of a plan to expand economic activities aligned with the Taxonomy or to enable economic activities eligible for the Taxonomy to be aligned with it ("CapEx plan");

) These expenses are linked to the purchase of production from eligible economic activities aligned with the Taxonomy and to individual measures enabling the targeted activities to become low-carbon or to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions (particularly the activities listed in points 7.3 to 7.6 of Annex I to the delegated act on climate, or other economic activities listed in the delegated acts).

The amounts concerned include additions to tangible and intangible assets during the financial year before depreciation and before any remeasurements, including revaluations and impairments, for the year, excluding fair value changes. It also includes additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets resulting from business combinations, as well as contract additions, contract revaluations and changes in scope of consolidation relating to the application of IFRS16.

## **OpEx**

### **Definition**

The operating expenses retained by SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy in application of the provisions of the Taxonomy, as forecast in 2023, concern the following categories:

) Non-capitalized research and development expenditure, including associated personnel costs, restated for tax credits received over the period;

) Short-term leases as determined in accordance with IFRS 16 and include expenses relating to short-term leases and low-value leases;

) Upkeep, repair, maintenance, and other direct expenses related to the day-to-day maintenance of property, plants, and equipment.

# **1. Standard tables required under the Taxonomy Regulation**

The appendix of the regulatory tables can be consulted in the DPEF available on the website: www.savencia-fromagedairy.com

# **2. Methodological note - European taxonomy**

# **1. Reminder of indicators and reconciliation with financial**

## **Revenue**

As part of the update of the 2023 eligibility reference framework, the following points should be noted:

) In accordance with European Regulation 2020/852 of June 18, 2020, on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment within the European Union (EU), SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy, due to its status as a public interest entity, is required to publish, for the 2021 financial year, the proportion of its revenue, capital expenditure, and operating expenditure resulting from products and/or services associated with economic activities that qualify as sustainable pursuant to the classification and criteria defined in the Taxonomy for the first two climate objectives. SAVENCIA Holding does not, to date, fall within the scope of this Regulation. The analysis and figures presented therefore concern the activities within SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy (hereinafter the Group).

) The financial data are derived from the consolidated financial statements as of December31, 2023; the Taxonomy denominators for the revenue and capital expenditure KPIs can therefore be reconciled with the financial statements as required by the Regulation.

### **Definition**

The proportion of revenue referred to in Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 is obtained by dividing the proportion of net revenue derived from products or services, including intangible assets, associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator) by the net revenue (denominator) as defined in Article 2 (5) of Directive 2013/34/EU. Revenue includes income recognized in accordance with International Accounting Standard 1, paragraph 82A, as adopted by Commission Regulation (EC) No. 1126/2008.

# **Appendices**

## Page 39

# Results and non-financial performance Results and non-financial performance

# **Corporate governance**

# **1. Board of Directors**

The Board of Directors is made up of sixteen members. They are appointed for a one-year renewable term. At December31, 2023, eight directors are independent on the basis of the criteria set by France's AFEP-MEDEF report. The Board sets its schedule of meetings, which are held bimonthly unless additional urgent or necessary meetings are called in the interest of the Company.

# **1. The specialist committees**

The Board of Directors is assisted by three specialist committees. SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy provides them with the means necessary for carrying out their task, when necessary, with the help of the various departments concerned, and it gives them the ability to seek outside advice. Each of these committees meets several times a year and whenever its opinion is deemed necessary by the Board.

# **2. The audit and risk committee**

This Committee comprises at least three members of the Board of Directors. It examines the consolidated financial statements and assesses the bases of their preparation in liaison with the Group's statutory auditors. It verifies the existence and proper functioning of internal controls and examines the Group's major risk exposures and commitments. In each of these fields, it assesses the Group's requirements, the technical and human resources employed and their suitability. It informs the Board of Directors of any observations or recommendations that it considers useful.

# **Members**

Christian Mouillon (Chairman), Martine Liautaud, Annette Messemer, Xavier Govare, François Wolfovski, and Pierre Lavergne and Arnaud Capdeville (Secretaries).

# **2. Board of Directors composition**

**Alex Bongrain** Chairman

**Armand Bongrain** Board member, Member of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

### **Anne-Marie Cambourieu**

Independent Board member, Member of the Management and Remuneration Committee, Member of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

### **Clare Chatfield**

Independent Board member, Chairwoman of the Management and Remuneration Committee

### **Xavier Govare**

Independent Board member, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Member of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

**Philippe Gorce**

Board member representing the employee shareholder

**Malika Haimeur** Independent Board member, Chairwoman of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

**Martine Liautaud** Independent Board member, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee

**Annette Messemer** Independent Board member

## **Christian Mouillon** Independent Board member, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Member of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

**Ignacio Osborne** Board member, Member of the Management and Remuneration Committee

# **Robert Roeder**

Independent Board member, Member of the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee

**Sophie de Roux** Board member

**Bruno Witvoet** Board member

**François Wolfovski** Board member, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee

**Savencia Holding Company**  represented by Xavier Cruse - Board member, Vice-Chairman of the Savencia S.A. Board of Directors - Member of the Management and Remuneration Committee

# **3. The management and remuneration committee**

It assists the Board on the organization and structures of the Group, the composition and development of the members of the Board of Directors and General Management, the Group's Human Resources policy and the compensation policy.

# **Members**

Clare Chatfield (Chairwoman), Anne-Marie Cambourieu, Xavier Cruse, Ignacio Osborne, and Laurent Marembaud (Secretary).

# **4. The social and environmental responsibility committee**

It includes at least three members of the Board of Directors. Its mission is to assist the Board of Directors in assessing the challenges of social and environmental responsibility. It assesses the Group's policies and the progress of the main action plans for the various aspects of social and environmental responsibility.

# **Members**

Malika Haimeur (Chairwoman), Armand Bongrain, Anne-Marie Cambourieu, Xavier Govare, Christian Mouillon, Robert Roeder, and Laure Sartout-Siblini (Secretary).

# **Simplified group structure**

Image /page/38/Figure/42 description: The image shows a simplified group structure of Savencia Fromage & Dairy. At the top of the structure is "Savencia Fromage & Dairy\*". Branching from this are "Savencia Fromage & Dairy Europe 100%", "Savencia Fromage & Dairy International 100%", and "Alliance Laitiere Europeenne 100%". Under "Savencia Fromage & Dairy Europe 100%" is "France", which leads to "Western Europe", and then to "Central and Eastern Europe". Under "Savencia Fromage & Dairy International 100%" is "USA", which leads to "South America", then to "MENA", and finally to "Asia-Pacific". Under "Alliance Laitiere Europeenne 100%" is "Compagnie Laitiere Europeenne 85.86%". Branching from this are "Cheese" and "Technical Butter AFI". Under "Cheese" is "Cream, Butter, Desserts", and under "Technical Butter AFI" is "Ingredients, Nutrition". The image also includes a legend indicating that orange boxes represent cheese products and blue boxes represent other dairy products.

## Page 40

# Results and non-financial performance Results and non-financial performance

(1) Mainly relating to the following currencies: sharp devaluation of the Argentine peso (-€81.5 million), accentuated in the fourth quarter, as well as the evolution of Russian, Chinese, North American and Brazilian currencies. (2) Mainly relating to hedging of interest rate and raw materials. (3) IFRS 9 excludes the currency basis spread from the hedging relationship (see note 14.2).

(4) Impact of hyperinflation in Argentina.

# **Consolidated financial statements**

**As of December**

# **As of December 31, 2023**

# **Consolidated income statement**

|                                                                      | 12 months      |                |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|----------------|
| In thousands of euro                                                 | 2023           | 2022           |
| NET SALES                                                            | 6,790,713      | 6,551,216      |
| Purchases adjusted for changes in inventories                        | -4,582,655     | -4,364,582     |
| Personnel costs                                                      | -1,182,623     | -1,156,275     |
| Depreciation and amortization                                        | -203,630       | -199,509       |
| Other current operating income and expenses                          | -608,885       | -596,549       |
| CURRENT OPERATING PROFIT                                             | 212,920        | 234,302        |
| Other operating income and expense                                   | -43,612        | -71,426        |
| OPERATING PROFIT                                                     | 169,308        | 162,876        |
| Financial expenses                                                   | -60,040        | -38,208        |
| Financial income                                                     | 42,011         | 13,766         |
| Result on net monetary position                                      | 3,092          | 2,725          |
| Group share of associates' net income                                | 1,761          | 1,537          |
| EARNINGS BEFORE TAX                                                  | 156,132        | 142,696        |
| Income tax expense                                                   | -50,250        | -57,267        |
| Net income from continuing operations                                | 105,882        | 85,429         |
| <b>NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR</b>                                       | <b>105,882</b> | <b>85,429</b>  |
| Net income attributable to equity holders of the parent company      | 96,479         | 68,046         |
| Non-controlling interests                                            | 9,403          | 17,383         |
| EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euro)                                         |                |                |
| Group share                                                          |                |                |
| • basic                                                              | 7.17           | 5.01           |
| • diluted                                                            | 7.17           | 5.01           |
| From continuing operations:                                          |                |                |
| • basic                                                              | 7.17           | 5.01           |
| • diluted                                                            | 7.17           | 5.01           |
|                                                                      |                |                |
| Consolidated statement of other comprehensive                        |                |                |
| income                                                               | 12 months      |                |
| In thousands of euro                                                 | 2023           | 2022           |
| <b>NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR</b>                                       | <b>105,882</b> | <b>85,429</b>  |
| Other comprehensive income:                                          |                |                |
| Foreign exchange differences1                                        | -114,946       | 18,120         |
| Change in fair value of cash-flow hedges2                            | -5,405         | 9,894          |
| Currency basis spread3                                               | 342            | 550            |
| Hyperinflation4                                                      | 38,863         | 25,512         |
| Share of associates and joint-ventures in recyclable components      | 78             | 38             |
| <b>Total recyclable components of other comprehensive income</b>     | <b>-81,068</b> | <b>54,119</b>  |
| Actuarial gains and losses relating to employment benefit plans      | -4,470         | 23,337         |
| Share of associates and joint-ventures in non-recyclable components  | -              | -              |
| <b>Total non-recyclable components of other comprehensive income</b> | <b>-4,470</b>  | <b>23,337</b>  |
| <b>Total other comprehensive income net of tax</b>                   | <b>-85,538</b> | <b>77,456</b>  |
| <b>TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NET OF TAX</b>                         | <b>20,344</b>  | <b>162,885</b> |
| Group share                                                          | 11,305         | 143,685        |
| Non-controlling interests                                            | 9,039          | 19,200         |

Non-controlling interests

- ) Euronext Paris Eurolist Compartment B
- ) Code ISIN FR0000120107
- ) Par value: €1
- ) Number of shares: 14,032,930
- ) Market capitalization at 12.31.2022: €819.5 million
- ) Euronext closing market price on 12.31.2023: €55
- ) Market capitalization at 12.31.2023: €771.81 million

# **Stock market activity in 2023**

# **Stock market data per share**

| In euros                                                   | 2023   | 2022   | 2021   | 2020   | 2019   |
|------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Highest adjusted price                                     | 64     | 67     | 77     | 64.4   | 69.4   |
| Lowest adjusted price                                      | 52.6   | 50.7   | 58.6   | 47.9   | 55.4   |
| Price at December 31                                       | 55     | 58.4   | 61.2   | 60.4   | 61.4   |
| Market capitalization at December 31 (in millions of euro) | 771.81 | 819.52 | 858.82 | 847.59 | 861.62 |

# **Data per share**

# **In euros 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019** Equity **129.55** 130.21 121.36 110.57 104.35 Net income **7.2** 5.01 6.05 5.72 5.33 Netdividend(1) **1.4** 1.3 1.5 1.5 - Global yield(2) **2.55%** 2.23% 2.45% 2.48% -

(1) Proposal at the AGM held on April 25, 2024 (2) Based on the share price at December31

| Closing date as of        | December 31, 2023                      |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Annual net sales for 2023 | February 8, 2024                       |
| Annual results for 2024   | March 7, 2024                          |
| 1st quarter net sales     | April 25, 2024                         |
| Half-yearly results       | September 19, 2024                     |
| 3rd quarter net sales     | October 24, 2024 before opening market |
| Annual results            | March 2025                             |

Annual General Meeting April 25, 2024

# **Shareholders' agenda Financial information**

# **Adjusted share price in 2023**

**Composition of the share capital** 

**in 2023**

(1) Employees of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy and its associated companies, as defined by articles L.3344-1 and following of the french

Image /page/39/Figure/15 description: This image shows a line graph comparing the performance of SAVENCIA and CAC all tradable over time. The x-axis represents time, ranging from 01/23 to 12/23. The y-axis represents the value, ranging from 50 to 70. The blue line represents SAVENCIA, and the orange line represents CAC all tradable. The CAC all tradable line starts at approximately 58 at 01/23, rises to approximately 70 by 03/23, and then fluctuates between 60 and 70 until 12/23. The SAVENCIA line starts at approximately 58 at 01/23, rises to approximately 63 by 02/22, and then fluctuates between 60 and 63 until 06/23, after which it declines to approximately 53 by 11/23, and then rises slightly to approximately 54 by 12/23.

code of Labor law, holding shares. (2) Including the Company's liquidity contract.

**5,62%** FCPE1 **4,69%** Treasury shares2

**23,05%**

Other shareholders

**66,64%** SAVENCIA Holding SCA

## Page 41

(2) Including interest paid on lease obligations (see note 9.3).

(3) In 2023, the acquisition of 100% of SAW S.A.. In 2022, the acquisition of 51.04% of Poitou Chèvre SAS.

(4) In 2023, the acquisition of a 50% stake of Wiskerchen Cheese LLC. company.

(5) In 2023, purchase of 15% of Bake Plus following the partial exercise of the put & call option and exercise of the put & call option of 30% of Palace Industries.

# **Consolidated cash flow statement**

|                                                                   |          | 12 months |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|
| In thousands of euro                                              | 2023     | 2022      |
| Net income from continuing operations                             | 105,882  | 85,429    |
| Income tax expense                                                | 50,250   | 57,267    |
| Amortization and provisions                                       | 203,630  | 199,509   |
| Gains and losses on disposal of assets                            | -1,448   | -7,758    |
| Group share of results of associates                              | -1,761   | -1,537    |
| Net financial expense                                             | 21,392   | 7,539     |
| Other non-cash expenses and income1                               | 26,861   | 63,482    |
| Gross operating margin                                            | 404,806  | 403,931   |
| Interest paid2                                                    | -56,182  | -23,181   |
| Interest received                                                 | 35,590   | 13,532    |
| Income tax paid                                                   | -51,093  | -51,958   |
| Change in working capital                                         | -72,510  | -87,274   |
| NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES                           | 260,611  | 255,050   |
| Acquisition of subsidiaries, operating units3                     | -30,699  | -3,541    |
| Disposal of activities net of transferred cash                    | -        | -         |
| Acquisitions of investments in associates and joint ventures4     | -3,520   | -         |
| Purchase of tangible and intangible assets                        | -178,911 | -188,397  |
| Disposal of tangible and intangible assets                        | 3,145    | 6,263     |
| Acquisition of long-term financial assets                         | -3,964   | -1,587    |
| Disposal of long-term financial assets                            | 2,142    | 1,667     |
| Changes in other current financial assets                         | -25,021  | -15,226   |
| Dividends received (including dividends received from associates) | 541      | 1         |
| NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES                             | -236,287 | -200,820  |
| Purchase and sale of own shares                                   | -5,264   | -13,271   |
| Capital increase received from minority shareholders              | -        | 3,871     |
| Changes in interests in controlled entities5                      | -9,621   | -         |
| New borrowings                                                    | 122,707  | 26,235    |
| Repayments of borrowings                                          | -26,860  | -16,506   |
| Repayment of lease obligations                                    | -28,350  | -28,592   |
| Dividends paid                                                    | -24,428  | -26,880   |
| NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES                           | 28,184   | -55,143   |
| Impact of foreign exchange differences                            | -16,336  | 8,502     |
| Net change in cash and cash equivalents                           | 36,172   | 7,589     |
| OPENING CASH BALANCE                                              | 496,902  | 489,313   |
| CLOSING CASH BALANCE                                              | 533,074  | 496,902   |

# **Consolidated balance**

# **As of December 31, 2023**

# **Equity and liabilities**

| Assets                                                      |        | At December 31, 2023 | At December 31, 2022 |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------|----------------------|----------------------|
| In thousands of euro                                        |        |                      |                      |
| Intangible assets                                           |        | 514,148              | 511,779              |
| Property, plant and equipment                               |        | 1,284,993            | 1,299,629            |
| Rights of use assets for leases                             |        | 65,511               | 60,702               |
| Other non-current financial assets                          |        | 29,012               | 28,077               |
| Investments in associates                                   |        | 28,809               | 23,838               |
| Non-current derivative financial instruments                |        | 17,175               | 31,225               |
| Deferred tax assets                                         |        | 35,813               | 29,458               |
| Other non-current assets                                    |        | 6,662                | 6,662                |
| <b>TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS</b>                             |        | <b>1,982,123</b>     | <b>1,984,708</b>     |
| Inventories and work in progress                            |        | 849,590              | 865,591              |
| Trade and other receivables                                 |        | 1,131,845            | 1,112,826            |
| Tax receivables                                             | 37,060 | 37,060               | 33,494               |
| Current derivative financial instruments                    |        | 7,301                | 9,043                |
| Other current financial assets                              |        | 45,153               | 24,019               |
| Cash and cash equivalents                                   |        | 590,984              | 548,616              |
| Assets held for sale or relating to discontinued operations |        | 3,075                | 3,952                |
| <b>TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS</b>                                 |        | <b>2,665,008</b>     | <b>2,597,541</b>     |
| <b>ASSETS</b>                                               |        | <b>4,647,131</b>     | <b>4,582,249</b>     |

| In thousands of euro                         |  | At December 31, 2023 | At December 31, 2023 |
|----------------------------------------------|--|----------------------|----------------------|
| Paid-in capital                              |  | 50,516               | 55,780               |
| Other reserves                               |  | -210,010             | -85,977              |
| Retained earnings                            |  | 1,740,188            | 1,623,759            |
| <b>GROUP SHARE OF EQUITY</b>                 |  | <b>1,580,694</b>     | <b>1,593,562</b>     |
| Non-controlling interests                    |  | 237,206              | 233,660              |
| <b>TOTAL EQUITY</b>                          |  | <b>1,817,900</b>     | <b>1,827,222</b>     |
| Provisions for pensions                      |  | 79,156               | 69,984               |
| Other provisions                             |  | 21,648               | 22,612               |
| Non-current financial borrowings             |  | 391,564              | 294,922              |
| Non-current lease liabilities                |  | 47,156               | 40,716               |
| Other non-current liabilities                |  | 23,763               | 17,402               |
| Non-current derivative financial instruments |  | 4,848                | 6,768                |
| Deferred tax liabilities                     |  | 82,109               | 72,871               |
| <b>TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES</b>         |  | <b>650,244</b>       | <b>525,275</b>       |
| Trade and other payables                     |  | 1,405,376            | 1,461,032            |
| Tax payable                                  |  | 23,240               | 21,146               |
| Current derivative financial instruments     |  | 3,686                | 4,926                |
| Current bank borrowings                      |  | 722,497              | 721,836              |
| Current lease liabilities                    |  | 24,188               | 20,812               |
| <b>TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES</b>             |  | <b>2,178,987</b>     | <b>2,229,752</b>     |
| <b>LIABILITIES</b>                           |  | <b>2,829,231</b>     | <b>2,755,027</b>     |
| <b>EQUITY AND LIABILITIES</b>                |  | <b>4,647,131</b>     | <b>4,582,249</b>     |
