## Page 109

#### <span id="page-108-0"></span>**SUSTAINABLE USE AND PROTECTION OF WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES**

The economic activities of the Porsche AG Group were evaluated with respect to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources looking at the three following criteria: preserving water quality, avoiding water stress and environmental impact assessment (EIA or similar processes). Risks identified in the course of EIA investigations are examined as part of approval procedures and, if relevant, result in measures and official requirements. The Porsche AG Group based the analysis primarily on ISO-14001 certificates, findings from site approval procedures and other external data sources with regard to sites in regions with a greater exposure to risks.

#### **TRANSITION TO A CIRCULAR ECONOMY**

Environmentally compatible waste management in the manufacturing process, the recycling and use of secondary raw materials and a long product lifespan are key parts of the Porsche AG Group's environmental management system. The strategy field of a circular economy is part of the Porsche AG Group's sustainability strategy and is divided into several fields of action. Here, cross-functional teams work on various key topics — including recycling concepts for high-voltage batteries, the use of circular materials in Porsche vehicles, sustainable product design, avoiding plastic waste and concepts for the reconditioning of vehicle components.

The strategy field also covers circular economy projects at the sites. The Porsche AG Group is pursuing the long-term vision of a zero-impact factory at its vehicle production sites, in other words production that has the smallest negative impact on the environment possible.

The product-related requirements for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles are reflected in the implementation of the statutory end-of-life vehicle requirements in conjunction with the type approval of the vehicle models. In addition to this, there are targets and measures for the use of recycled materials in new vehicles.

#### **POLLUTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL**

An economic activity is considered to be ecologically sustainable if this activity does not result in a substantial increase — compared to the situation before the activity commenced — of pollutant emissions in the air, water or ground. The automotive sector generally is already heavily regulated, as can be seen, among other things, from the publicly available Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL). Approval and monitoring processes are implemented with the aim of ensuring compliance with the current legislation and internal regulations applicable to the business operation. In this context, the Porsche AG Group's analyses and evaluations already also explore the use of alternative substances.

In July 2023, the EU Commission revised the DNSH criterion of the EU Taxonomy. There is room for interpretation as to the effects of the changed requirements for internal processes with regard to substitution checks for substances of very high concern (SVHC) for the reporting year 2023.

The Porsche AG Group has already established requirements and processes that stipulate that SVHCs must generally be avoided and replaced. Based on this, the Porsche AG Group includes the production process materials and vehicle-related components of the all-electric vehicles (BEV) in its analyses with regard to the substances they contain and their suppliers in order to assess the substitutability of SVHCs, taking into account technical and economic criteria. In a pilot project, the Porsche AG Group is testing the design of the processes to be implemented, including the documentation of a substitution check in accordance with the amended requirements of the EU Taxonomy.

#### **PROTECTION AND RESTORATION OF BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS**

In order to verify compliance with the requirements on biodiversity and ecosystems, the relevant areas were identified. Where biodiversity-sensitive areas are located close to a production site, we checked whether a nature conservation assessment had been performed and whether nature conservation measures had been defined in the environmental approvals and subsequently implemented. We also checked whether a site's conservation status had changed.

38

### **Minimum safeguards**

The minimum safeguards consist of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the International Bill of Human Rights. The assessments confirm that the Porsche AG Group meets the requirements of the minimum safeguards in the reporting year.

The Porsche AG's Executive Board and Group Works Council take their corporate responsibilities for human rights particularly seriously and are committed to these conventions and declarations and reiterate their support for the contents and principles stated therein.

The German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG) stipulates certain due diligence obligations to avoid human rights and environmental risks. These include carrying out risk analyses, establishing preventive measures, remedial measures and providing a complaints mechanism.

For its supply chain, the Porsche AG Group has systematically added processes and measures to respect human rights to its company-wide risk and supplier management systems. For its own business, the Porsche AG Group uses its compliance risk assessment to map the human rights and environmental issues it considers relevant within Porsche as well as risks in connection with its direct suppliers. The risk assessment forms the basis for identifying appropriate measures.

Porsche AG Group operates a multistage complaints management system that provides internal and external complainants with a confidential communication channel for reporting potential breaches of human rights and violations of environmental duties.

If the Porsche AG Group determines that a violation of a human rights or environmental obligation has occurred or is imminent in its own business or at one of its direct suppliers, it takes immediate action to prevent or end such violations or to minimize the extent of the violation. If the Porsche AG Group has factual indications of a potential violation of a human rights or environmental obligation by an indirect supplier, the Porsche AG Group exercises the available legal and actual options to take immediate action to prevent or end such violations or to minimize the extent of the violation.

The Executive Board of Porsche AG has delegated the implementation of the obligations arising from the monitoring of Porsche's due diligence with regard to human rights and environmental matters to the Business & Human Rights Council, which is made up of members from various disciplines and reports directly to the Executive Board.

#### **Key performance indicators in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation**

The EU Taxonomy defines sales revenue, capital expenditure and operating expenditure as the key performance indicators that must be reported on. The Porsche AG Group explains these in the following. The tables prescribed by the EU Taxonomy are also included at the end of this section.

The financial figures relevant for the Porsche AG Group are based on the IFRS consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2023. By differentiating between economic activities, we have avoided double counting. Where possible, the Porsche AG Group has directly assigned the figures within an economic activity. For example, the financial figures were compiled based on the vehicle model and drive technology. This applies both to the vehicles themselves and to the corresponding financial services and other services and activities. Where this was not possible for capital expenditure and operating expenditure, the figures were broken down using allocation formulas. Allocation formulas were based on the planned vehicle volumes. This data and planning form part of multi-year operational planning covering the next five years, on which the Executive Board and Supervisory Board have passed a resolution.

## Page 110

#### **SALES REVENUE**

The turnover defined in the EU Taxonomy corresponds to sales revenue as reported in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, which amounted to €40,530 million in fiscal year 2023**. → Notes to the consolidated financial [statements–1.](#page-153-0) Sales revenue**

Of this total, €39,075 million, or 96.4% of consolidated sales revenue, was attributable to economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport" and classified as taxonomy-eligible. This includes sales revenue after sales deductions from the sale of new and used vehicles, from sales of original parts, from the rental and lease business, from interest and similar income as well as sales revenue directly related to vehicles, such as workshop and other services.

Taxonomy-eligible sales revenue of €99 million, or 0.2% of consolidated sales revenue, was attributable to economic activity "3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components" and classified as taxonomy-eligible. This includes the sale of engines and powertrains for all-electric vehicles to third parties.

Of the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue attributable to economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport", €5,143 million or 12.7% met the screening criteria used to measure the substantial contribution to climate change mitigation. This includes all of the all-electric vehicles and certain plug-in hybrids. In 2023, this amounted to 49 thousand vehicles, 42.5% more than in the prior year. The very sharp increase in sales of taxonomy-aligned vehicles was due to both

#### a significant increase in sales of the Taycan and also to the firsttime inclusion of taxonomy-aligned plug-in hybrids. In relation to the total sales revenue of the Porsche AG Group, this resulted in an increase in taxonomy-aligned sales revenue of 2.8 percentage points.

In addition, the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue attributable to economic activity "3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components" met the screening criteria used to measure the substantial contribution to climate change mitigation.

Taking into account the DNSH criteria and the minimum safeguards, €5,143 million (2022: €3,787 million2) or 12.7% (2022: 10.1%2) of consolidated sales revenue attributable to economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport" and €99 million or 0.2% of consolidated sales revenue attributable to economic activity "3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components", which had to be reported on for the first time, were taxonomy-aligned.

Of the Porsche AG Group's total sales revenue in the fiscal year 2023,

- €39,175 million (2022: €36,704 million²), or 96.7% (2022: 97.5%²), was taxonomy-eligible sales revenue
- €5,243 million (2022: €3,787 million), or 12.9% (2022: 10.1%²), was taxonomy-aligned sales revenue

#### **EU Taxonomy: sales revenue**

| Economic activities                                      |  | Sales revenue |      |  | Substantial contribution to climate change mitigation |      | Compliance with DNSH criteria | Compliance with minimum safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned sales revenue |      |  |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--|---------------|------|--|-------------------------------------------------------|------|-------------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------|--|
|                                                          |  | € million     | %1   |  | € million                                             | %1   | Y/N                           | Y/N                                | € million                      | %1   |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                          |  | 39,175        | 96.7 |  | 5,243                                                 | 12.9 | Y                             | Y                                  | 5,243                          | 12.9 |  |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport |  | 39,075        | 96.4 |  | 5,143                                                 | 12.7 | Y                             | Y                                  | 5,143                          | 12.7 |  |
| of which taxonomy-aligned BEVs                           |  |               |      |  |                                                       |      | Y                             | Y                                  | 4,368                          | 10.8 |  |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components   |  | 99            | 0.2  |  | 99                                                    | 0.2  | Y                             | Y                                  | 99                             | 0.2  |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                      |  | 1,355         | 3.3  |  |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                |      |  |
| Total (A + B)                                            |  | 40,530        |      |  |                                                       |      |                               |                                    |                                |      |  |

<sup>1</sup> All percentages relate to the total amount of sales revenue.

<sup>2</sup> The prior-year figures have been adjusted (see explanations on IFRS 17 **→ Notes to the consolidated financial statements — [Effects of new or amended IFRS](#page-145-0)**).

40

In fiscal year 2023, additions in the Porsche AG Group as defined above amounted to

- €2,454 million from intangible assets
- €1,797 million from property, plant and equipment
- €2,900 million from leased assets (mainly vehicle leasing business)

Additions from changes in the consolidated group, which amounted to €0 million in fiscal year 2023, can also be added to this figure. Total capital expenditure to be included in accordance with the EU Taxonomy therefore came to €7,151 million.

**CAPITAL EXPENDITURE** Capital expenditure (CapEx) refers to the following items in the IFRS consolidated financial statements: additions to intangible assets, additions to property, plant and equipment and additions to leased assets. These are reported in **→ Notes to the [consolidated](#page-158-0) [financial statements–13. Intangible assets,](#page-158-0) → Notes to [the consolidated financial](#page-159-0)  statements–14. [Property, plant and equipment,](#page-159-0) → Notes to the [consolidated](#page-160-0) [financial statements–15.](#page-160-0) Leased assets**. Additions from business combinations, each of which is reported under "Changes in consolidated group", are also included. By contrast, additions to goodwill are not included in the calculation. meet the screening criteria was not included. Capital expenditure that was not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle was taken into account on a proportionate basis using allocation formulas. Allocation formulas were used based on the planned vehicle volumes for the group companies. Depending on the primary business activity, the overarching Porsche AG Group allocation formulas were used for sales companies, for example, and allocation formulas based on the location were used for production companies.

All capital expenditure is associated with economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport". The taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure amounted to €7,151 million or 100% of the Group's capital expenditure.

To determine the substantial contribution, the financial figures were compiled based on the vehicle model and drive technology, in the same way as for sales revenue. Where possible, capital expenditure was directly attributed to vehicles. It was included if the vehicles in question make a substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation objective. Any capital expenditure directly attributable to vehicles that do not

Taking into account the DNSH criteria and minimum safeguards, capital expenditure of €2,743 million (2022: €2,634 million) was taxonomy-aligned. This represents 38.4% (2022: 43.6%) of the group's total capital expenditure. Of this, €1,494 million related to intangible assets, €820 million to property, plant and equipment and €430 million to leased assets. For all-electric vehicles (BEV), this figure includes additions to capitalized development costs of €1,297 million and additions to property, plant and equipment of €810 million. In absolute terms, taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure increased slightly compared to the prior year. This is attributable to the growing number of environmentally sustainable vehicle projects in line with the EU Taxonomy. The moderate relative decrease in taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure compared to the prior year is mainly due to investments in connection with the production set-up for the all-electric Macan, which was largely completed in the fiscal year 2022.

Of the Porsche AG Group's total capital expenditure in the fiscal year 2023,

- €7,151 million (2022: €6,045 million), or 100% (2022: 100%), was taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure
- €2,743 million (2022: €2,634 million), or 38.4% (2022: 43.6%), was taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure

## Page 111

|                                                                 | Capital expenditure |              |              | Substantial contribution to<br>climate change mitigation |          |          | Compliance<br>with DNSH<br>criteria | Compliance<br>with<br>minimum<br>safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned<br>capital expenditure |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|--------------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--|
| Economic activities                                             | € million           | %1           | € million    | %1                                                       | Y/N      | Y/N      | € million                           | %1                                          |                                         |  |
| <b>A. Taxonomy-eligible activities</b>                          | <b>7,151</b>        | <b>100.0</b> | <b>2,743</b> | <b>38.4</b>                                              | <b>Y</b> | <b>Y</b> | <b>2,743</b>                        | <b>38.4</b>                                 |                                         |  |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon<br>technologies for transport     | 7,151               | 100.0        | 2,743        | 38.4                                                     | Y        | Y        | 2,743                               | 38.4                                        |                                         |  |
| of which additions to capitalized<br>development costs for BEVs |                     |              |              |                                                          | Y        | Y        | 1,297                               | 18.1                                        |                                         |  |
| of which additions to property,<br>plant and equipment for BEVs |                     |              |              |                                                          | Y        | Y        | 810                                 | 11,3                                        |                                         |  |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and<br>mobility components       | -                   | -            | -            | -                                                        | -        | -        | -                                   | -                                           |                                         |  |
| <b>B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities</b>                      | -                   | -            |              |                                                          |          |          |                                     |                                             |                                         |  |
| <b>Total (A + B)</b>                                            | <b>7,151</b>        |              |              |                                                          |          |          |                                     |                                             |                                         |  |

<sup>1</sup> All percentages relate to the total amount of capital expenditure.

#### **OPERATING EXPENDITURE**

The operating expenditure (OpEx) reported by the Porsche AG Group for the purposes of the EU Taxonomy comprises noncapitalized research and development costs, which can be taken from **→ Notes to the consolidated financial [statements–13.](#page-158-0) Intangible assets**. The Porsche AG Group also includes the expenditure for shortterm leases recognized in the consolidated financial statements, which can be found in **→ Notes to the [consolidated financial statements–](#page-170-0) 35. [Leases](#page-170-0)** and expenditure for maintenance and repairs.

The allocation of operating expenditure to the economic activities followed the same logic as that described for capital expenditure. All operating expenditure is associated with economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport" and has been classified as taxonomy-eligible by the Porsche AG Group.

Where possible, non-capitalized research and development costs were directly attributed to vehicles. It was included if the vehicles in question make a substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation objective. Any non-capitalized research and development costs directly attributable to vehicles that do not meet the screening criteria were not included. Noncapitalized research and development costs that were not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle were taken into account on a proportionate basis using allocation formulas. For these and other operating expenses, the same allocation formulas were used as for capital expenditure. Of the taxonomyaligned operating expenditure of €555 million (2022: €467 million), 64.1% (2022: 63.4%) was attributable to noncapitalized research and development costs. The increase in taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure — both the absolute value and the proportion — is attributable to the growing number of environmentally sustainable vehicle projects in line with the EU Taxonomy.

#### **EU Taxonomy: operating expenditure**

|                                                          | Operating expenditure |       |           | Substantial contribution to climate change mitigation |     | Compliance with DNSH criteria | Compliance with minimum safeguards | Taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure |  |  |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----|-------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--|--|
| Economic activities                                      | € million             | %¹    | € million | %¹                                                    | Y/N | Y/N                           | € million                          | %¹                                     |  |  |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                          | 1,112                 | 100.0 | 555       | 49.9                                                  | Y   | Y                             | 555                                | 49.9                                   |  |  |
| 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport | 1,112                 | 100.0 | 555       | 49.9                                                  | Y   | Y                             | 555                                | 49.9                                   |  |  |
| 3.18 Manufacture of automotive and mobility components   | -                     | -     | -         | -                                                     | -   | -                             | -                                  | -                                      |  |  |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                      | -                     | -     | -         | -                                                     |     |                               |                                    |                                        |  |  |
| Total (A + B)                                            | 1,112                 |       |           |                                                       |     |                               |                                    |                                        |  |  |

<sup>1</sup> All percentages relate to the total amount of operating expenditure.

42

#### **CAPEX PLAN WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THE EU TAXONOMY**

According to the requirements of the EU Taxonomy, a distinction must be made as to what extent the taxonomyaligned capital and operating expenditures a) relate to assets or processes associated with environmentally-sustainable economic activities or b) are part of a plan to expand taxonomyaligned economic activities or to convert taxonomy-eligible economic activities into taxonomy-aligned economic activities (CapEx plan). The CapEx plan within the scope of the EU Taxonomy shows the total amount, i.e., the sum of all capital and operating expenditures expected to be incurred to expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or to convert taxonomyeligible economic activities into taxonomy-aligned economic activities in the reporting period and during the five-year operational medium-term planning.

The CapEx plan in terms of the EU Taxonomy relates to economic activity "3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport" as listed in the environmental objective of climate change mitigation.

Additions from leased assets (mainly vehicle leasing business) are already based on existing ecologically sustainable activities, which is why they were not included in the CapEx plan. The Porsche AG Group allocated additions from intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as non-capitalized research and development costs to the CapEx plan, provided that they result in a conversion or expansion. To do this, the Porsche AG Group compared the average taxonomy-aligned production volume from the operational medium-term planning with the taxonomy-aligned vehicles of the reporting year and used this ratio to apportion the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditures. The Porsche AG Group took the share exceeding the current taxonomy-aligned production volume into account accordingly.

As a result of this, €1,741 million of the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and €268 million of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure in the reporting year were allocated to the CapEx plan as defined by the EU Taxonomy. The total amount expected to fall under this CapEx plan within the scope of the EU Taxonomy in the reporting period and during the fiveyear operational medium-term planning amounts to around €15 billion.

## Page 112

**Substantial contribution criteria**

| Economic activities                                                                                                       | Code           | Sales revenue | Proportion of sales revenue, 2023 | Climate change mitigation | Climate change adaptation | Water     | Pollution | Circular economy | Biodiversity | Minimum safeguards | Proportion of taxonomy-aligned (A.1.) or -eligible (A.2.) sales revenue, 2022 | Category enabling activity | Category transitional activity |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|---------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|-----------|------------------|--------------|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------|
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                           |                |               |                                   |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)                                                            |                |               |                                   |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                      | CCM 3.3        | 5,143         | 12.7                              | Y                         | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                  | 10.1                                                                          | E                          |                                |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility components                                                                         | CCM 3.18       | 99            | 0.2                               | Y                         | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         | Y                  | -                                                                             | E                          |                                |
| Sales revenue of environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                          |                | 5,243         | 12.9                              | -                         | -                         | -         | -         | -                | -            | Y                  | 10.1                                                                          |                            |                                |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                         |                | 5,243         | 12.9                              | -                         | -                         | -         | -         | -                | -            | Y                  | 10.1                                                                          | E                          |                                |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                     |                | -             | -                                 |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              | –                  | -                                                                             |                            |                                |
| A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned activities)                   |                |               |                                   | EL; N/EL3                 | EL; N/EL3                 | EL; N/EL3 | EL; N/EL3 | EL; N/EL3        | EL; N/EL3    |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport                                                                      | CCM 3.3 33,932 |               | 83.7                              | EL                        | N/EL                      | N/EL      | N/EL      | N/EL             | N/EL         |                    | 87.5                                                                          |                            |                                |
| Sales revenue of taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |                | 33,932        | 83.7                              | -                         | –                         | –         | –         | –                | –            |                    | 87.5                                                                          |                            |                                |
| Sales revenue of taxonomy-eligible activities (A.1 + A.2)                                                                 |                | 39,175        | 96.7                              | –                         | –                         | –         | –         | –                | –            |                    | 97.5                                                                          |                            |                                |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                       |                |               |                                   |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |
| Sales revenue of taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B)                                                                     |                | 1,355         | 3.3                               |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                             |                | 40,530        | 100.0                             |                           |                           |           |           |                  |              |                    |                                                                               |                            |                                |

<sup>1</sup> All percentages relate to the total sales revenue of the group.

<sup>2</sup> Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activity with

the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Not eligible, taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective.

<sup>3</sup> EL: taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant objective.

<sup>4</sup> The prior-year figures have been adjusted (see explanations on IFRS 17 **[→ Notes to the consolidated financial statements](#page-145-0) — Effects of new or amended IFRS**).

44

 **DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm")**

## Page 113

**Substantial contribution criteria**

|                                                                                                                         | Code        | CapEx       | Proportion<br>of CapEx,<br>2023 | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation | Water          | Pollution      | Circular<br>economy | Bio-<br>diversity | Minimum<br>safeguards | Proportion of<br>taxonomy-<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or -eligible<br>(A.2.) CapEx,<br>2022 | Category<br>enabling<br>activity | Category<br>transitional<br>activity |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------|----------------|---------------------|-------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Economic activities                                                                                                     |             | € (million) | %¹                              | Y; N;<br>N/EL²                  | Y; N;<br>N/EL²                  | Y; N;<br>N/EL² | Y; N;<br>N/EL² | Y; N;<br>N/EL²      | Y; N;<br>N/EL²    | Y/N                   | %¹                                                                                    | E                                |                                      |
| A. Taxonomy-eligible activities                                                                                         |             |             |                                 |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
| A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities<br>(taxonomy-aligned)                                                       |             |             |                                 |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>transport                                                                 | CCM<br>3.3  | 2,743       | 38.4                            | Y                               | N/EL                            | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL                | N/EL              | Y                     | 43.6                                                                                  | E                                |                                      |
| Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>components                                                                    | CCM<br>3.18 | -           | -                               | Y                               | N/EL                            | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL                | N/EL              | Y                     | -                                                                                     | E                                |                                      |
| CapEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)                                             |             | 2,743       | 38.4                            | 38.4                            | -                               | -              | -              | -                   | -                 | Y                     | 43.6                                                                                  |                                  |                                      |
| Of which enabling                                                                                                       |             | 2,743       | 38.4                            | 38.4                            | -                               | -              | -              | -                   | -                 | Y                     | 43.6                                                                                  | E                                |                                      |
| Of which transitional                                                                                                   |             | -           | -                               | -                               |                                 |                |                |                     |                   | -                     | -                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
| A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)     |             |             |                                 | EL;<br>N/EL³                    | EL;<br>N/EL³                    | EL;<br>N/EL³   | EL;<br>N/EL³   | EL;<br>N/EL³        | EL;<br>N/EL³      |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
| Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>transport                                                                 | CCM<br>3.3  | 4,408       | 61.6                            | EL                              | N/EL                            | N/EL           | N/EL           | N/EL                | N/EL              |                       | 56.4                                                                                  |                                  |                                      |
| CapEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) |             | 4,408       | 61.6                            | 61.6                            | -                               | -              | -              | -                   | -                 |                       | 56.4                                                                                  |                                  |                                      |
| CapEx of taxonomy-eligible activities<br>(A.1 + A.2)                                                                    |             | 7,151       | 100.0                           | 100.0                           | -                               | -              | -              | -                   | -                 |                       | 100.0                                                                                 |                                  |                                      |
| B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities                                                                                     |             |             |                                 |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
| CapEx of taxonomy-non-eligible<br>activities (B)                                                                        |             | –           | –                               |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
| Total (A + B)                                                                                                           |             | 7,151       | 100.0                           |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                         |             |             |                                 |                                 |                                 |                |                |                     |                   |                       |                                                                                       |                                  |                                      |

<sup>1</sup> All percentages relate to the total capital expenditure of the group.

<sup>2</sup> Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activity with

the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Not eligible, taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective.

<sup>3</sup> EL: taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant objective.

46

 **DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm")**

## Page 114

**Substantial contribution criteria**

| Y; N;<br>Y; N;<br>Y; N;<br>Y; N;<br>Y; N;<br>Y; N;<br>Economic activities<br>€ (million)<br>%¹<br>N/EL2<br>N/EL2<br>N/EL2<br>N/EL2<br>N/EL2<br>N/EL2<br>Economic activities<br>€ (million)<br>%¹<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>Y/N<br>%¹<br>A. Taxonomy-eligible activities<br>A. Taxonomy-eligible activities<br>A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities<br>A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities<br>(taxonomy-aligned)<br>(taxonomy-aligned)<br>Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>CCM<br>Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>CCM<br>transport<br>3.3<br>555<br>49.9<br>Y<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>transport<br>3.3<br>555<br>49.9<br>Y<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>45.9<br>Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>CCM<br>Manufacture of automotive and mobility<br>CCM<br>components<br>3.18<br>-<br>-<br>Y<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>components<br>3.18<br>-<br>-<br>Y<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>-<br>OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>OpEx of environmentally sustainable<br>activities (taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)<br>555<br>49.9<br>49.9<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>(A.1)<br>555<br>49.9<br>-<br>-<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>45.9<br>Of which enabling<br>555<br>49.9<br>49.9<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>Of which enabling<br>555<br>49.9<br>49.9<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>Y<br>45.9<br>Of which transitional<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>Of which transitional<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>EL;<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities)<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>activities)<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>N/EL3<br>Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for<br>CCM<br>CCM<br>transport<br>3.3<br>557<br>50.1<br>EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>transport<br>3.3<br>557<br>50.1<br>EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>N/EL<br>54.1<br>OpEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>OpEx of taxonomy-eligible but not<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>environmentally sustainable activities<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)<br>(not taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)<br>557<br>557<br>50.1<br>50.1<br>50.1<br>50.1<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>54.1<br>OpEx of taxonomy-eligible activities<br>OpEx of taxonomy-eligible activities<br>(A.1 + A.2)<br>(A.1 + A.2)<br>1,112<br>1,112<br>100.0<br>100.0<br>100.0<br>100.0<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>-<br>100.0<br>B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities<br>B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities<br>OpEx of taxonomy-non-eligible<br>OpEx of taxonomy-non-eligible<br>activities (B)<br>–<br>–<br>activities (B)<br>–<br>–<br>Total (A + B)<br>Total (A + B)<br>1,112<br>1,112<br>100.0<br>100.0<br>1 All percentages relate to the total operating expenditure of the group.<br>2 Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned activity with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned activity with<br>the relevant environmental objective; N/EL: Not eligible, taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant environmental objective. | E<br>E<br>E<br>E<br>3 EL: taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant objective.<br>EL: taxonomy-eligible activity for the relevant objective; N/EL: taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the relevant objective. |  | Code<br>Code | OpEx<br>OpEx | Proportion<br>Proportion<br>of OpEx,<br>2023<br>2023 | Climate<br>Climate<br>change<br>mitigation<br>mitigation | Climate<br>Climate<br>change<br>adaptation<br>adaptation | Water Pollution<br>Water Pollution | Circular<br>economy<br>economy | Bio<br>diversity<br>diversity | Climate<br>change<br>mitigation | Climate<br>change<br>adaptation | Water | Pollution | Circular | economy Biodiversity | Minimum<br>safeguards | Proportion of<br>taxonomy<br>aligned (A.1.)<br>or -eligible<br>(A.2.) OpEx,<br>2022 | Category<br>enabling<br>activity | Category<br>transitional<br>activity |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------|-----------|----------|----------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  | T                                    |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          |                                                          |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |              |              |                                                      |                                                          | Combined management report Non-financial statement 2023  |                                    |                                |                               |                                 |                                 |       |           |          |                      |                       |                                                                                     |                                  |                                      |

🔍

←

→

48

 **DNSH criteria ("Does Not Significantly Harm")**

## Page 115

## <span id="page-114-0"></span>**ENVIRONMENT**

#### **Climate change mitigation**

The Porsche AG Group is aware of its responsibility for climate change mitigation and committed to the targets agreed in the Paris Agreement in 2015. These include keeping the global average temperature increase below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit it even further to 1.5°C.

For this reason, the Porsche AG Group structures its processes and products to build a net carbon-neutral future in which resources are used as responsibly as possible. The focus here is on vehicle decarbonization, the development of alternative drive systems, reducing consumption of primary resources and making increasing use of more ecological materials1 in vehicles and in their upstream supply chains.

#### **TARGETS**

The Porsche AG Group intends to lower its average greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain and over the vehicles' entire life cycles.2 The Porsche AG Group has developed its reduction pathway based on existing 1.5-degree climate scenarios and formulated specific targets at the vehicle level and requirements at the component level.

The Porsche AG Group intends to have its targets validated within two years by the "Science Based Targets initiative" (SBTi), which is currently revising its scenarios. In October 2023, the SBTi published a draft version of the sectoral roadmap for the automotive industry, which is currently under consultation. The Porsche AG Group expects that the final reduction targets will be in line with the 1.5-degree target.

#### <sup>1</sup> For the Porsche AG Group, more ecological materials are reduced-carbon primary materials or circular materials. Reduced-carbon primary materials are characterized by the fact that they cause less CO₂ per kilogram of primary material than the average materials of the same type used in the EU. Porsche AG Group uses the term circular to describe materials that are partly produced from pre- and post-consumer scrap or from renewable raw materials.

- <sup>2</sup> Life cycle includes the CO₂ emissions of a vehicle in the supply chain, Porsche's production, use phase of 200,000 km and recycling.
- <sup>3</sup> This target covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Net carbon neutrality along the value chain of the newly produced vehicles describes the Porsche AG Group's ambition to avoid and reduce CO₂ emissions, especially during production (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions), in the supply chain and use phase of the vehicles delivered (upstream and downstream Scope 3 emissions), but also in other Scope 3 categories, such as professional travel. Avoided emissions and removals

The Porsche AG Group aims to achieve net carbon neutrality3 along the value chain (production, use, and end of life) of newly produced vehicles in 2030. To achieve this, the Porsche AG Group aims to systematically electrify its vehicle portfolio as a key lever for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In 2030, the Porsche AG Group aims to deliver more than 80% of its new vehicles with purely battery-electric drives — depending on customer demand and the development of new mobility concepts, including electromobility in individual regions of the world. The Porsche AG Group aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions4 in the use phase (Scope 3 emissions) of Porsche vehicles in 2030 by 70% compared to 2022.

In addition to the transformation to electromobility for new vehicles, the Porsche AG Group is also pursuing the goal of demonstrating how the fossil CO2 emissions of existing vehicles with combustion engines can be reduced by using renewable energy sources. Here, the Porsche AG Group is investigating synthetic, liquid fuels referred to collectively as eFuels. These fuels, produced based on electricity from renewable energy, could replace fossil fuels and thus potentially enable a virtually carbon-neutral operation of vehicles with combustion engines.

This means that the existing vehicle fleet could also potentially contribute to the decarbonization of the transport sector. Together with partners from science and industry, Porsche AG is working on developing these alternative fuels on an industrial scale.

(offsets) through climate change mitigation projects are included in the Porsche AG Group's decarbonization strategy. Therefore, in order to achieve net carbon neutrality, the remaining emissions along the value chain of the newly produced vehicles should be offset. Emissions of vehicles produced prior to achieving net carbon neutrality along the value chain of the vehicles are not taken into account for the calculation of the carbon balance. Realizing the Porsche AG Group's ambition depends upon various factors, for example, technological progress that has not yet been fully developed, and also on regulatory or economic developments that are outside the Porsche AG Group's control and may therefore not be realizable.

<sup>4</sup> Based on the GHG Protocol, the decarbonization index (DCI) models significant emissions as comprehensively as possible in greenhouse gas equivalents (CO2e), such as CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6. The DCI's targets and reporting relate to the current status of the methods and are stated in CO2e. For the sake of legibility, CO2 is used in this report.

50

#### **DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS**

The Porsche AG Group measures the success of its decarbonization program with the decarbonization index (DCI). This presents the model-based average emissions per newly produced vehicle along the entire value chain — from production and use to end of life — as comprehensively as possible in CO₂ equivalents (tCO2e/vehicle).

The Decarbonization working group processes all the Porsche AG Group's cross-departmental activities relevant to the DCI. It is also largely in charge of coordinating the implementation of the strategic program. The working group compiles content suggestions for DCI targets, reduction measures and corresponding roadmaps.

<sup>1</sup> For the purpose of recording CO2 emissions in the DCI, the main parts of the Porsche AG Group are above all Porsche AG and Porsche Leipzig GmbH. Outside the Porsche AG Group, the CO₂ emissions from the supply chain and use phase are particularly relevant for the DCI.

at company level and for the relevant company departments, which are signed off by the Steering Group and then the Executive Board.

It tracks their progress and offers a forum for discussion about the content. The working group also prepares decisions for the Environment and Sustainability Steering Committee. The Steering Committee meets regularly and reports on the DCI to the chain of bodies responsible from the Environment and Sustainability Steering Group right through to the Executive Board. The Steering Committee decides on target suggestions During the product development process, the targets are broken down to vehicle and system level and requirements are defined at component level and included as binding specifications for direct suppliers. The achievement of targets is then monitored by the Executive Board Product Committee, among others, and finally subjected to an external audit.

In preliminary processes and committees, the Porsche AG Group evaluates its product strategy and develops recommendations based on input from the relevant internal specialist departments. The Executive Board holds regular strategy workshops and planning rounds for this purpose. Decarbonization targets are included in the product strategy and product development process. These are initially set by the sustainability organization bodies and then verified when setting

The DCI covers the main parts of the Porsche AG Group.1 Among other factors, the DCI is based on life cycle assessments performed in accordance with ISO 14040/44. Individual assumptions and values as well as data from life cycle inventory databases are used for these.2 As a strategic indicator with a transparent and comprehensive calculation, the DCI is intended to support the Porsche AG Group in reducing its carbon footprint. Porsche AG Among other these.2 Porsche AG Porsche for

targets for the vehicle projects and signed off on by the responsible committee of the Executive Board.

≡

🔍

←

→

↵

<sup>2</sup> In this index, the CO₂ emissions in the use phase are calculated over 200,000 km per vehicle with reference to average consumption figures of the primary market regions (EU+3 (Iceland, Norway, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), China, the USA). The consumption figures are calculated in accordance with the respective statutory review cycle. The intensity of the CO₂ emissions from the electricity used to charge electric vehicles is also calculated on the basis of energy mixes of the primary market regions. Supply chains and recycling emissions stem from the vehicle life cycle assessments. Vehicle maintenance is not included in the calculation.

In cooperation with the Volkswagen Group, the Porsche AG Group revises the composition, valuation methods, and methodology of the DCI on a regular basis, for example, due to changes in internal or external requirements, such as vehicle test cycles. DCI values previously published can therefore also be adapted to new premises — considering the requirements of the GHG Protocol for the recalculation of corporate emissions for the purpose of obtaining a methodologically consistent time series. Porsche — considering Porsche AG from vehicle and requirements binding

Image /page/114/Figure/21 description: This image shows a diagram of the decarbonization index for the Porsche AG Group. The diagram is divided into several stages: Supply chain, In-house, Usephase, End of life, and Other. The Supply chain stage is further divided into Raw materials and Supplier. The In-house stage is divided into Production. The Usephase stage is divided into Upstream chain and Driving emissions. The End of life stage is Recycling. The Other stage is Employee mobility, waste, logistics, etc. The Raw materials stage includes Material extraction and processing. The Supplier stage includes Energy consumption for supply chain further processing. The Production stage includes Energy consumption for vehicle manufacture. The Upstream chain stage includes Upstream chains for fuel extraction and refining, CO₂ emissions caused by power generation. The Driving emissions stage includes CO₂ emissions from fuel combustion during the vehicle's usephase. The Recycling stage includes Energy consumption for vehicle recycling.

**ENVIRONMENT**

#### **Decarbonization Index**

## Page 116

The Porsche AG Group has set up an internal project organization structure consisting of eleven sub-projects for topics relating to eFuels. The Procurement Central Functions, Strategy, Digitalization, Risk Prevention and Original Parts department has overall responsibility for the project and is supported by the Politics and Society department in communications. Approximately every two months, they report to subject-specific steering groups, to which members of the Executive Board also belong. In addition, eFuels are a core component of the meetings of the "Beyond Core" strategy area from the Porsche Strategy 2030, which take place four times a year.

The Executive Board's remuneration has also been tied to the DCI targets since fiscal year 2023.1 The Executive Board resolved the same for the management of Porsche AG and selected national subsidiaries.

#### **MEASURES**

To continuously reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the entire life cycle of Porsche vehicles, two main levers are currently available: the electrification of the vehicle portfolio and the systematic implementation of measures along the entire life cycle of the vehicles — from the supply chain and production through to the downstream use phase.

#### **Electrification of the vehicle portfolio**

The Porsche AG Group is systematically expanding its range of battery-electric vehicles. The portfolio of the Panamera and Cayenne model series has been successively expanded to include plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV). These will continue to be designed with high performance in mind and greater electric ranges. As part of its electrification strategy, the Porsche AG Group has offered the all-electric Taycan since 2019. In addition, the Porsche AG Group is launching the next generation of the Macan in 2024 as a purely battery-powered electric vehicle (BEV). It plans to offer the 718 Boxster and Cayman models as BEVs by mid-decade. The all-electric Cayenne is expected to be launched shortly afterwards.

In the medium term, there are also plans to expand the product portfolio with a new, all-electric model in the SUV segment above the Cayenne. Going forward, sporty hybridization will be possible for the Porsche 911.

<sup>1</sup> To calculate target achievement, the DCI, including the scope of voluntary CO2 compensation measures through climate change mitigation projects, is included in the ESG factor in the variable remuneration with the annual bonus (short-term incentive) in the remuneration of the Executive Board and management.

#### **Decarbonization in the supply chain**

Porsche AG is also working on the supply chain of its vehicles and contributing to the decarbonization target — a net carbon neutral value chain of the newly produced vehicles in 2030. For example, all direct suppliers of production materials for vehicles are required to switch their production to certified electricity from renewable energies. This has applied to all new production material contracts of all-electric series vehicle projects awarded since July 2021. Virtually all direct suppliers of production materials have agreed to meet this requirement.

In the reporting year, the Executive Board of Porsche AG set decarbonization targets for new vehicle and platform projects. In addition, specific decisions were made for relevant vehicle projects under development on how to further reduce the carbon footprint in the supply chain.

Together with AUDI AG, Porsche AG is developing the Premium Platform Electric (PPE), a modular platform for electric cars for the period beyond the reporting period. The aim is to use this for the all-electric Macan and one other model series in the short to medium term. Another platform is the Scalable Systems Platform (SSP), which Porsche AG is developing with AUDI AG and other companies in the Volkswagen Group. The highperformance version (SSP Sport) in particular aims to support Porsche's all-electric vehicles. Using this long-term strategy of aligning vehicle development on a small number of platforms allows for synergies in development and production, which can also make a potential contribution to climate protection. One example is a jointly developed high-voltage battery in the SSP, which can be used to implement lower-carbon materials and more carbon-efficient processes for several vehicles.

In the reporting year, Porsche AG entered further partnerships with manufacturers of raw materials to improve the carbon footprint of Porsche vehicles. Porsche AG and a Norwegian aluminum producer have agreed to work together on lowcarbon aluminum.

In addition, they also intend to develop a plan for a more ecologically sustainable value chain for battery materials and their recycling. The focus here is on how to design efficient closed cycles for the high-voltage batteries of Porsche electric vehicles. Another cooperation is the supply of low-carbon steel by a Swedish start-up from the steel industry. The partner company uses an innovative production process with hydrogen and electricity from renewable energies.

52

#### **Decarbonization in production**

For its own vehicle production, the Porsche AG Group is pursuing the vision of a zero-impact factory by 2030; in other words, a factory that has as little negative impact on the environment as possible. The reduction of the CO₂ emissions at the vehicle production sites in Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen and Leipzig also lowers the DCI. The two production sites in Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen and Leipzig as well as the development site in Weissach were net carbon neutral in the reporting year.

#### **Decarbonization of the use phase**

Although no local CO2 emissions are incurred during the operation of electric vehicles, the carbon footprint of the use phase1 depends on the intensity of the CO₂ emissions from the electricity generation. The use of renewable energies is therefore a major lever for reducing CO₂ emissions during the use phase. As new battery-electric vehicles increase the demand for electricity in the markets, Porsche AG is committed to the expansion of renewable energies. Porsche AG intends to enter long-term indirect commitments with operators of wind and solar plants to promote the expansion of renewable energies. These plants are to provide new capacities to generate enough electricity from renewable energies to match the vehicles' imputed energy requirements. This approach has been used since 2021 for the newly produced fleet of the Taycan Sport Turismo and Taycan Cross Turismo models in the respective fiscal year. In the reporting year, the approach was extended to all Taycan models. Additional models will follow in the coming years.

enables access to charging points from various providers. More than 560,000 charging points in over 20 European countries are currently connected.

The Porsche AG Group is also continuing to expand its charging infrastructure. Over 1,000 high-performance charging points have been put into operation for customers at more than 600 dealer locations to date. These are tailored to the Porsche Taycan and future Porsche vehicles with their 800-volt charging architecture. The Porsche AG Group is also planning to set up its own fast-charging stations along main traffic routes. In addition to this, the Porsche AG Group is involved in the further expansion of the public fast-charging infrastructure, which also includes IONITY's network of currently more than 500 fast-charging parks in Europe. The Porsche AG Group already participated in an additional financing round for the joint venture in 2021. In addition, Porsche Destination Charging is helping the Porsche AG Group expand the existing infrastructure for AC charging. There are more than 5,000 charging points in 86 countries and there should be more than 7,500 by the end of 2025. The Porsche Charging Service also Until now, the CO2 used there has been taken from a biogenic source. The DAC process uses wind energy to filter the CO2 required for production from the atmosphere in an environmentally friendly way. With this commitment, the Porsche AG Group is seeking to contribute to the worldwide development of world-class sites: these are sites where competitive eFuels can be manufactured under optimal conditions. This includes ensuring that renewable energies can be used without competing with other industries.

In addition to the transformation to all-electric vehicles and the decarbonization of the use phase through electricity from renewable energies, Porsche AG is also committed to solutions to reduce CO2 emissions from combustion engines. Alongside efficiency-enhancing technologies, the Porsche AG Group is working on further developing alternative fuels (especially eFuels) on an industrial scale.

Together with HIF (Highly Innovative Fuels), Siemens Energy and several other international companies, the Porsche AG Group built an industrial eFuels production plant in Punta Arenas, Chile, in 2022. The Porsche AG Group not only funded most of the pilot plant, but also closely accompanied the project progress and will use the fuel produced there in the future. Punta Arenas has particularly favorable conditions compared to the rest of the world: There is a constant strong wind, which ensures low costs for renewable electricity generation by wind turbines and thus to produce eFuels. The pilot plant is designed for a maximum production volume of around 130,000 liters of eFuels per year; the aim is to expand the capacity in Chile to around 600 million liters per year by the end of the decade. Together with Volkswagen Group Innovation, the eFuels company HIF Global and MAN Energy Solutions, the Porsche AG Group is looking into integrating a direct air capture (DAC) facility into the eFuels pilot plant in Chile.

<sup>1</sup> For instance, the CO₂ emissions in the use phase are calculated over 200,000 km per vehicle with reference to average consumption figures of the primary market regions (EU+3 (Iceland, Norway, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), China, the USA). The consumption figures are calculated in accordance with the respective statutory review cycle. The intensity of the CO₂ emissions from the electricity used to charge electric vehicles is also calculated on the basis of energy mixes of the primary market regions. Supply chains and recycling emissions stem from the vehicle life cycle assessments. Vehicle maintenance is not included in the calculation.

## Page 117

#### <span id="page-116-0"></span>**RESULTS**

In the reporting year, the Porsche AG Group delivered 29,403 PHEVs (9.2% of total deliveries) and 41,023 BEVs (12.8% of total deliveries). The share of all-electric vehicles delivered in 2023 increased in comparison to the prior year.

#### **BEV share**

| %                                                 | 2023 | 2022 | 2021 |
|---------------------------------------------------|------|------|------|
| Share of all-electric<br>vehicles (BEV) delivered | 12.8 | 11.3 | 13.7 |

The Porsche AG Group reviews the effectiveness of its decarbonization program on an ongoing basis. To this end, it uses forecasts prepared during the year and commissions external audits.

In the reporting year, the DCI was 62.7 tCO2e/vehicle, which represents a slight decrease of 1.8% year on year.

#### **Decarbonization index**

| DCI                            | 2023 | 2022 | 2021 |
|--------------------------------|------|------|------|
| Metric tons of<br>CO2e/vehicle | 62.7 | 63.9 | 63.8 |

CO2 emissions from the use phase were reduced by 3.1% in the reporting year compared to the prior year. A decisive factor here was Porsche AG's commitment to the expansion of new wind and solar power plants in combination with the higher proportion of purely battery-powered vehicles. In the reporting year, the newly contracted capacities corresponded to the energy requirements of the newly produced Taycan fleet.

The first Porsche Charging Lounge in Germany was opened in the reporting year.

The pilot plant in Punta Arenas, Chile, commenced operations in the reporting year. The first batches of eFuels were produced and used in initial applications at vehicle events.

In addition to its involvement with HIF, Porsche AG participates in various research projects and initiatives such as DeCarTrans and Refinery4Future. The funding project "reFuels–Rethinking Fuels" under the umbrella of the Baden-Württemberg Strategiedialog Automobilwirtschaft was completed in the reporting year.

54

#### **Circular economy TARGETS**

Porsche AG is increasingly aligning its processes, products and use of raw materials towards a resource-saving and net carbon neutral future. The concept of a circular economy is a key component of Porsche AG's sustainability strategy. Defined fields of action address topics such as the battery raw material cycle and the use of circular materials in vehicles, or circular economy concepts for Porsche sites.

Through its work in the strategy field of a circular economy, Porsche AG and selected subsidiaries are striving to handle raw materials in a responsible and resource-saving way and to use vehicles and the materials used in them for a long time.

Among other things, it is pursuing the goal of a closed battery raw material cycle. Batteries and their battery cell modules should be used in the vehicle for as long as possible. It should also be possible to reuse their raw materials in new batteries after going through modern recycling processes or to use the battery cell modules in energy storage systems. The aim is also to reduce the share of primary raw materials in other areas of the vehicle wherever technically possible and to use more ecologically sustainable materials. The longevity of Porsche vehicles and the associated long service life of the materials used also contribute to the formulated target image. This is to be further strengthened by the extended availability of spare parts and the reconditioning of selected components.

Aspects of the circular economy will also be increasingly integrated into the development of Porsche vehicles. For example, there are pre-development projects for various vehicle components using more ecologically sustainable raw materials and recycled materials. In addition, a holistic approach aims to strengthen circular economy concepts and reduce waste at the production sites. **[→ Waste](#page-56-0)<sup>1</sup>**

terial
ar

y,
e raw
use

tery
s
should
ies
the
s also
s of

Targets and projects were defined for all fields of action in the reporting year, ranging from pilot projects for battery recycling to the development of a catalog of criteria for the use of plantbased renewable raw materials.

In the reporting year, the Porsche AG Group set specific targets for the use of circular materials. These apply to newly developed, purely battery-electric vehicle models.2

#### **DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS**

Porsche AG has paved the way organizationally, on a strategic level and within the individual divisions and series, for the goals to be pursued in a systematic manner. In doing so, it has integrated the vehicle and project goals for circular materials into the target system and related processes of selected model series. Selected business divisions are involved in the implementation process. The Circular Economy working group coordinates projects and monitors progress at least quarterly. This is made up of representatives from the Sustainability department and the relevant departments from the areas of development, production, procurement, sales and quality. The working group discusses the status of the targets set and the associated projects and, if necessary, derives new measures and further projects. The results are regularly reported to the Executive Board.

To meet the targets for using circular materials, Porsche AG has developed and implemented an internal control system that is constantly being improved upon. It is used by the relevant departments, e.g., procurement, development and finance, making it possible to analyze and prioritize the measures to increase the use of secondary materials in future vehicle projects.

<sup>2</sup> Excluding product upgrades.
